WELCOME TO THE TUESDAY
APRIL 15TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION FOR A
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PER UNIT MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MR. LEONARD OR MANAGER
LEONARD, WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL?
YES.
COMMISSIONER LEE MR. RIGHT HERE
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE.
>> MR. EVANS HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER DISH.
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
SURE.
WHETHER BE YOUR COMMISSIONER
ADAMS HERE.
MR. NORTON HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM FOR YOUR SPECIAL MODERN
DAY VERSION OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> THANK YOU, MANAGER LEONARD.
>> I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF MOTION PLEASE SIR
I.
I OPPOSE THE MOTION CASE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES OF THE APRIL FIRST
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PCI I OPPOSE THE
MOTION CARRIES NEXT UP THE
REPORTS TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS WILL START WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH COUNCIL
REPORT NOTHING TO REPORT.
NO MEETING HAS OCCURRED TO
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER THIS
MANAGER REPORT FROM THE
STONEHEART.
>> YES.
SINCE YOUR LAST MEETING THE
DRAFT REPORT WHICH YOU'LL BE
DISCUSSING THIS EVENING HAS
BEEN SHARED AS WE TALKED ABOUT.
IT'S ALSO BEEN A LOT OF THE
CONTENT HAS BEEN MIGRATED TO
THE CITIES NEW ENGAGEMENT HUB
SO THE PREVIOUSLY PUBLISHED
SHORTCUT IS NOW DIRECTED TO
THAT PAGE AS WELL.
SO HOPEFULLY IT SHOULD BE VERY
ACCESSIBLE FOR PEOPLE TO FIND
AND WE ARE STILL IN THE THROES
OF FINALIZING MEETING MEETINGS
BUT WE HAVE PUBLISHED THE
UPCOMING PUBLIC THE PUBLIC
SESSIONS WHICH I WANT TO REMIND
FOLKS OF AND PERHAPS SENIOR
PLANNER BENNETT CAN REMIND US
ALL OF THOSE DATES AND
LOCATIONS.
OK, SO FOR OUR OUR FIRST
ENGAGEMENT SESSION IS THURSDAY
,APRIL TWENTY FOURTH THAT WILL
BE AT THE WESTGATE LIBRARY FROM
THREE PM TO SEVEN PM ON
WEDNESDAY APRIL 30TH FROM THREE
PM TO SEVEN PM WILL BE AT THE
MARLETTE'S CREEK LIBRARY BRANCH
AND THEN MAY 7TH FROM THREE TO
SEVEN PM WILL BE AT THE TREVER
LIBRARY AND THEN LATER ON YOUR
AGENDA AN UPDATED MEETING
CALENDAR REFLECTING SOME OF THE
WORK THAT'S GOING TO BE TAKING
PLACE AT THIS TABLE AS THAT'S
ALL I HAVE.
>> THANK YOU MR LEINERT.
DO ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER
OFFICERS OR CITIZENS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED IN
TODAY'S PACKET WHICH TAKES US
TO ITEM NUMBER SIX PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING THIS
EVENING THE COMMISSION WILL
DISCUSS CHAPTERS ONE, TWO AND
THREE OF THE DRAFT
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
WE KINDLY ASK THAT YOU FOCUS
YOUR COMPREHENSIVE COMMENTS ON
THOSE SECTIONS IN THE FOLLOWING
WEEKS AS WE GET INTO DETAILS
LIKE THE GOALS OR STRATEGIES OR
THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP, WE
WILL DEDICATE ONE SECTION EACH
EXCUSE ME TO THE REMAINING
CHAPTERS.
THE PUBLIC WILL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE COMMENTS ON
THOSE CHAPTERS AS WELL.
WE WILL FIRST START BY HEARING
FROM THOSE WHO ARE PRESENT IN
THE CHAMBERS.
THEN WE WILL HEAR FROM OUR
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS IF THERE
ARE ANY TO SPEAK REMOTELY
BRUSSTAR NINE IF ON PHONE AND
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IN
ZOOME FOR PHONE ACCESS YOU CAN
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE FOUR SEVEN AND
OUR MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX CITY STAFF WERE IDENTIFIED
CALLERS THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME IF CONNECTING TO ASSUME
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME YOU CAN COME
UP.
>> THANK YOU AND GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS RAJEEV BARTRA AND I
LIVE AT TWO EIGHT EIGHT FIVE
RENFREW STREET IN THE BROMLEY
SUBDIVISION OF ANN ARBOR FOR
ONE ZERO FIVE.
MY FAMILY AND I HAVE LIVED FOR
THIRTY SIX YEARS.
I WANT TO SAY TWO THINGS IN MY
THREE MINUTES.
>> FIRST, YOU MAY THINK YOU'VE
INVOLVED ENOUGH CITIZENS IN THE
FEEDBACK PROCESS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BUT YOU
HAVEN'T GIVEN THE HUGE CHANGES
THE PLAN PROPOSES.
YOU NEEDED THOUSANDS MORE OF US
WHO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED.
I'M ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN WHAT
THE CITY DOES AND GET FREQUENT
EMAILS FROM IT BUT NEVER
ANYTHING ABOUT THIS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UNTIL ABOUT
A MONTH AGO FROM SOMETHING I
READ ON NEXT DOOR, I APPRECIATE
THAT THIS IS A DIFFICULT TASK
FOR YOU SINCE WE NO LONGER HAVE
THE ANN ARBOR NEWS TO
COMMUNICATE WITH CITIZENS.
BUT I DO THINK THAT THIS WHOLE
PROCESS NEEDS TO BE PAUSED
UNTIL THOUSANDS MORE
PARTICIPATE IN THIS PROCESS
OF MASSIVE CHANGE.
SECOND, I AGREE THAT WE NEED
MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN ANN
ARBOR BUT YOU SHOULD BE GOING
ABOUT THIS IN A MUCH MORE
TARGETED AND PHASED MANNER.
YOUR PLAN IN ONE SWOOP ALLOWS
DEVELOPERS TO BUILD FOUR STOREY
MAYBE THREE STOREY.
THAT'S UNCLEAR.
TOWNHOUSES AND COMPLEXES AND
DUPLEXES AND COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS IN EVERY SINGLE
RESIDENTIAL AREA OF ANN ARBOR
AN IDEA WHICH I AND MY
NEIGHBORS STRONGLY OPPOSE.
>> I URGE YOU TO SCALE BACK
THIS NUCLEAR OPTION AND BEGIN
THIS IN ONLY A SMALL SLICE
OF OUR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS SO
THAT WE ALL HAVE TIME TO ASSESS
THE ACCEPTABILITY OF YOUR
PROPOSED CHANGES BEFORE THIS IS
POTENTIALLY ROLLED OUT INTO
MORE RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
>> THANK YOU
.
I'M MARY DURFEE.
I LIVE AT TEN FIFTY TWO OLIVIA
,I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
CONCEPT OF MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT IN TRANSITION ZONES
THROUGHOUT THE REPORT THE
ABILITY TO WALK TO AMENITIES
THEREBY REDUCING THE DEPENDENCY
ON AUTOMOBILES IS REFERENCED.
I COULD NOT AGREE MORE WITH
WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOODS WITH
AMENITIES.
HOWEVER WHAT I HAVE OBSERVED IN
OVER THIRTY THREE YEARS AT MY
CURRENT LOCATION IS EXACTLY THE
OPPOSITE.
MANY WALKABLE STORES PROVIDING
SERVICES SUCH AS GROCERY
CLOTHING FOR MIDDLE INCOME
INDIVIDUALS HAVE EITHER BEEN
LEFT EMPTY OR HAVE BEEN
REPLACED BY GENTRIFIED
SERVICES.
LET ME LET ME IDENTIFY
KROGER'S.
WE HAD TO WITHIN WALKING
DISTANCE OF MY HOME BOTH
OF THEM ARE NOW GONE.
ONE WAS S INDUSTRIAL AND
STADIUM AND ONE WAS AT THE
GEORGETOWN MALL.
I'M SURE THERE WERE MARKET
CONDITIONS THAT CONTRIBUTED TO
THIS.
>> MY LIKELY EXPLANATION IS
THOSE MARKET CONDITIONS HAVE
NOT CHANGED BANK WE HAD A
CORNER ONE AT THE CORNER OF S
INDUSTRIAL STADIUM WHICH IS NOW
A COSMETIC DERMATOLOGY OFFICE
FOR BOTOX AND OTHER FILLERS.
JACK'S HARDWARE, A LOCALLY
OWNED STORE SERVICING TOWNEES
AND STUDENTS TURNED DOWN
RECENTLY.
WE DO NOT HAVE ONE.
WE NOW GO TO LOWE'S DRIVING
MANY STORES ALONG SOUTH
UNIVERSITY PROVIDING SERVICES
BAGELS, CHINESE FOOD PINBALL'S
TO HANG OUT FOR LOCAL TEENS AND
STUDENTS REPLACED WITH T
SHIRT
SHOPS, NAIL SALONS,
COFFEE SHOPS AND THOSE BAGELS
FROM NEW YORK CITY LARGELY
OWNED BY NON LOCAL PEOPLE TO
POST OFFICES ONE STAFFED BY THE
OWNERS OF GEORGETOWN GIFTS
WHICH CLOSED AND ONE ON THE
ALLEY BEHIND S UNIVERSITY WHICH
IS SCHEDULED TO BE TORN DOWN.
I WOULD ASK WHY THE CITY AND
THE CONSULTANTS BELIEVED THAT
THE MARKET CONDITIONS THAT LED
TO THE CLOSING OF THESE AND
MANY OTHER LOCALLY OWNED STORES
WILL BE DIFFERENT IN THE FIRST
FLOORS OF THE NEW MIXED USE
BUILDINGS WITH HIGHER LEASE
COSTS.
WE HAVE ONLY TO LOOK AT THE
FIRST FLOORS OF THE BUILDINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN BUILT IN THE
LAST TEN YEARS TO SEE THAT THEY
ARE EITHER EMPTY OR LEASED BY
OUT OF TOWN CHAINS THAT DO NOT
HELP TO PROVIDE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR THE LOCAL PEOPLE THAT
YOU'VE IDENTIFIED.
THE GEORGE IS A GREAT EXAMPLE.
I RECENTLY DECIDED TO READ ALL
OF THE STORIES ABOUT THE STORY
BEFORE IT WAS BUILT.
IT WAS IDENTIFIED AS THE
PERFECT SITE FOR A MIXED USE
BUILDING AND PREVIOUSLY HAD
KROGER'S GEORGETOWN GIFTS, A
TRAVEL OFFICE, A PIZZA PLACE, A
DRY CLEANERS.
IT IS ON A MAIN ARTERY AND HAS
A BUS STOP IN FRONT OF IT ON
PACARD IT WAS SEEMINGLY THE
PERFECT SITUATION UNFORTUNATE
WE ONCE BUILT NO BUSINESSES
SEEM TO AGREE WITH THAT
ASSESSMENT AND THE FIRST FLOOR
IS NOW TURNED INTO ADDITIONAL
LIVING SPACES.
BOTTOM LINE IS THAT JUST A
PROPOSAL IN MY OPINION AND THAT
OF OTHERS WILL NOT PROVIDE THE
LEVEL OF MIDDLE INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS THAT IT PREDICTS
BUILDING MIXED USE BUILDINGS
WILL NOT PROVIDE THE SERVICES
NECESSARY TO ELIMINATE THE NEED
FOR AUTOMOBILES.
THOSE SERVICES WOULD BE GROCERY
STORES WITH EVERY DAY PRICES,
DAYCARE CENTERS NOT MENTIONED
ONCE IN THE REPORT UNLESS
THEY'RE CONSIDERED AMENITIES,
PHARMACIES, HARDWARE STORES NOT
NAIL SALONS, COSMETIC
DERMATOLOGY AND COFFEE SHOPS.
THESE ARE ALL JUST ONE MORE WAY
OF GENTRIFYING A NEIGHBORHOOD.
I WOULD IMPLORE THE COMMISSION
TO CONSIDER PUTTING SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS ON THE DEVELOPERS
OF THESE DENSER NEIGHBORHOODS
COMMITTING A CERTAIN PERCENTAGE
OF LAND FOR THE NEIGHBOR
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST AND USING
FIRST FOR COMMERCIAL SPACES TO
BE AFFORDABLE MERCHANTS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME'S HENDERSON.
MY WIFE AND I HAVE BEEN AT 14
16 BROOKLYN SINCE EIGHTY SIX MY
TOPIC IS THE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PORTION OF THE
COMPANY PLAN LOOKING THROUGH
THE MATERIALS THAT YOU'VE
PROVIDED IT SEEMS TO ME LIKE
THERE'S A LOT OF KEY THINGS
THAT ARE KIND GLOSSED OVER AND
NOT REALLY DEALT WITH.
LET ME GIVE AN EXAMPLE.
THE DEVELOPERS DON'T HAVE TO
PROVIDE PARKING FOR THE MOST
PART.
SO LET'S SAY A DUPLEX GOES NEXT
DOOR TO YOU AND IT'S HARD TO
BELIEVE A DUPLEX ACTUALLY EIGHT
UNITS WHICH IS I CAN UNDERSTAND
THAT BUT A DUPLEX GOES IN EIGHT
UNITS NEXT DOOR.
NO PARKING PROVIDED WELL YOU
GET A COUPLE OF THOSE CLOSE TO
YOUR HOUSE AND EVERY DAY IS
GOING TO BE LIKE FOOTBALL
SATURDAY AFTERNOON BUT IT'S
GOING TO BE 24/7 365 DAYS A
YEAR.
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE WILL NEVER BE
ABLE TO PARK CLOSE TO THEIR
HOUSE OR IN FRONT OF THEIR
HOUSE.
SO PARKINGTON EXAMPLE TREES ARE
ANOTHER EXAMPLE THE DEVELOPERS
CAN RIP OUT ALL THE TREES THEY
WANT IN IN A TOWN CALLED TREE
TOWN THAT'S KIND OF A LITTLE
HARD TO IMAGINE.
IT'S HARD FOR ME TO THINK
PEOPLE WOULD BE OK WITH THE
WATER RUNOFF SITUATION IS THE
SAME THING THE DEVELOPERS WE'VE
ALL BEEN CONCERNED ABOUT THAT
WE'VE TAKEN A LOT OF STEPS TO
MITIGATE THE RUNOFF PROBLEMS.
DEVELOPERS DON'T HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT THAT IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
IT'S HARD FOR ME TO THINK
PEOPLE WOULD BE OK WITH THAT SO
I COULD GO ON AND ON.
>> BUT ONE OTHER PRIMARY ONE IS
THE ELIMINATION OF R ONE AND R
TWO.
IT'S REALLY IT'S IN THERE BUT
IT'S REALLY NOT MADE CLEAR TO
PEOPLE WHEN YOU WHEN THEY GO
THROUGH THE MATERIALS AND WHEN
PEOPLE BUY A SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSE THEY HAVE SOME REASONABLE
EXPECTATION THAT THAT THEY KNOW
HOW THAT NEIGHBORHOOD IS GOING
TO BE STRUCTURED.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TURNS OUT
ALL ON ITS ON ITS HEAD.
>> IT'S HARD FOR ME TO THINK
PEOPLE WOULD BE OK WITH THAT.
SO THAT'S ONE ASPECT OF THE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
THE OTHER IS THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE THAT HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED AS THE FIRST GENTLEMAN
MENTIONED THREE THOUSAND AND A
INITIAL SURVEY THERE'S BEEN
ENGAGEMENTS AT THE LIBRARY AND
THOSE ARE ONGOING.
BUT WHENEVER I TALK TO SOMEBODY
ABOUT THIS, THE FIRST THING
THEY SAY IS I HAD NO IDEA THE
CITY HAD THIS KIND OF THING
GOING ON.
>> SO I THINK WE HAVE TO BE A
BIT CAREFUL ABOUT THAT.
THE OTHER QUESTION IS LET'S
JUST TAKE THOSE THREE THOUSAND
IN THE FIRST SURVEY HOW WERE
THEY SELECTED?
HOW DO WE KNOW WHERE THEY
REALLY A GOOD RANDOM SAMPLE AND
WHAT KIND OF RESPONSES WE DON'T
GET TO SEE THEIR RESPONSES.
>> THAT WOULD BE INTERESTING TO
KNOW HOW DID THEY FEEL ABOUT
THIS SAVED BY THE BELL.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I JUST KNOW IT'S FINE TO TIME
MY NAME THAT ONLY ONE ONE THREE
FOUR FIVE AND OVERRODE I JUST
HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS TO
STAY WITHIN THE TIME LIMIT.
I WISH TO ASK THE MEMBERS IF I
AM CORRECT IN ASSUMING THAT THE
RECOMMENDATIONS WOULD RESULT
REPLACEMENT OF SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES BY COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES
PRESUMABLY NOT INCLUDING LIQUOR
STORES OR GUN STORES AND BY
MULTIUNIT FOUR STORY APARTMENT
OR CONDO BUILDINGS I ASSUME THE
SQUARE FOOTAGE OF SUCH
BUILDINGS WOULD BE LIMITED ONLY
BY THE SIZE OF THE LOT OR
CONJOIN LOTS.
AND WHAT I ALSO BE CORRECT IN
ASSUMING THAT THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS WOULD RESULT IN
A DECREASE IN THE NUMBER
OF SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THUS
MAKING THE AMERICAN DREAM
OF OWNING ONE'S HOME EVEN MORE
DIFFICULT TO ACHIEVE IN ANN
ARBOR.
AND LASTLY AS AN EXAMPLE OF HOW
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WILL LIKELY
NOT RESULT FROM THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS, THERE IS AN
ADVERTISEMENT IN THE CURRENT
ARNAB OBSERVER FOR A NEW
CONDOMINIUM BUILDING BEING
CONSTRUCTED NEAR SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES WHICH LISTS A UNIT FOR
FOUR MILLION NINE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS
ONE UNIT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MRS.
.
>> HI I'M WARREN WILLIAMS.
MY WIFE AND I HAVE LIVED AT TWO
SEVEN ZERO EIGHT LOWELL ROAD
FOR FIFTY ONE YEARS NOW AND I
HAVE TO SAY I GREW UP IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT YOU ARE
DESCRIBING AND IT WAS A
TERRIBLE PLACE TO BE A KID.
WE HAD NO PLACES TO PLAY.
WE USED TO PLAY IN THE STREET
WHEN A CAR WAS COMING DOWN THE
STREET WE WOULD ALL CAR AND
WE'D ALL GO TO THE SIDES EVERY
PARENT'S DREAM WAS TO MOVE OUT
OF THERE AND HAVE A SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSE FOR THEIR FAMILY
AND THOSE WITH MEANS DID SO AND
THOSE OF US WHOSE PARENTS COULD
NOT AFFORD TO DO SO STAYED AND
I DON'T KNOW WHAT CONSIDERATION
YOU HAVE GIVEN ABOUT THE
UPBRINGING OF CHILDREN IN YOUR
PLANS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO MY NAME IS WILLIE.
IF I LIVE ON NORTH ST. STREET
AND I LIKE TO THANK EVERYBODY
FOR GETTING TO THIS POINT.
I KNOW IT'S BEEN A LONG PROCESS
.
I THINK A LOT OF THE CONTENT IN
THE FIRST THREE SECTIONS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS GREAT AND
PROVIDES A LOT OF CONTEXT FOR
WHY CHANGE IS NECESSARY.
THERE'S ONE POINT ON PAGE
EIGHTEEN I THINK COULD BE
IMPROVED AND THERE'S AN
ARGUMENT SPECIFICALLY IT SAYS
WHILE NEW HOUSING GENERATES
REVENUE FOR THE CITY AND HELPS
CAPITALIZE THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TRUST FUND LOSING THE
NONRESIDENTIAL TAX BASE WILL
SHIFT EVEN GREATER BURDEN ONTO
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES BOTH
TRADITIONAL AND COMMERCIAL
MULTIFAMILY FURTHER IMPACTING
AFFORDABILITY.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT'S TOTALLY
LOGICAL BECAUSE IT CONFUSES THE
AGGREGATE BURDEN BETWEEN LAND
USES WITH THE ACTUAL BURDEN ON
EACH INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY OWNER.
SO IF A NEW APARTMENT BUILDING
GOES INTO A PLACE THAT'S
CURRENTLY LOW DENSITY
COMMERCIAL FOR EXAMPLE AND
THERE'S A BIG INCREASE IN TAX
REVENUE, THE AGGREGATE BURDEN
OF RESIDENTIAL GOES UP, THAT
PERCENTAGE GOES UP BECAUSE NOW
MORE OF THE PROPERTY TAX BASE
IS RESIDENTIAL BUT THE BURDEN
ON EACH INDIVIDUAL GOES DOWN SO
IT DOESN'T FOLLOW THAT NEW
HOUSING CONSTRUCTION IS GOING
TO HURT THE AFFORDABILITY
OF HOUSING.
SO I THINK YOU JUST REMOVE IT
AND THE REASON THIS IS
IMPORTANT IS BECAUSE THERE'S
ACTUALLY AN AREA OR AREAS IN
THE CITY WHERE THERE IS
ACTUALLY A BASE FOR LOTS OF NEW
HOUSING THAT IS WAY LESS
CONTROVERSIAL THAN SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS.
I OWN A SINGLE HOUSE.
I'VE LIVED HERE FOR MORE THAN
30 YEARS.
I SUPPORT MORE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
BUT DUPLEXES HERE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS THERE THAT ARE SMALL
SCALE ARE GOING TO TRICKLE IN
NEW HOUSING WHEREAS IN THE
AREAS MARKED FLEX THERE ARE
EMPTY LOTS WHERE DEVELOPERS
HAVE PROPOSALS READY TO GO TO
ADD LITERALLY THOUSANDS
OF BEDROOMS AND I HAVEN'T HEARD
ANY OBJECTIONS TO HOUSING AREAS
ON BUSY AREAS WITHOUT ANY
CURRENT EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSING.
SO THERE'S A HUGE OPPORTUNITY
HERE TO GET A LOT OF HOUSING
AND A VERY NON-CONTROVERSIAL
WAY AND I THINK WE SHOULD
REMOVE FAULTY ARGUMENTS THAT
PRECLUDE THAT POSSIBILITY IN
THESE EXPLANATORY EARLY
SECTIONS OF THE PLAN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
>> HI MY NAME IS JEFFREY POST.
I AM A REAL ESTATE AGENT WITH
THAT PROPERTIES CHRISTIE'S
INTERNATIONAL I AM A LONG TIME
AND OUR RESIDENT I WAS BORN AND
RAISED HERE AND I JUST WANT TO
IN REGARDS TO THE OUTREACH I
JUST WANT TO POINT OUT
SOMETHING THAT I REPRESENT
GROUP WHOSE LIFEBLOOD IS BUYING
AND SELLING HOMES AND
HELPING
PEOPLE CHAMPION MOVING TO THIS
TOWN.
WE ARE STAKEHOLDERS OF A UNIQUE
KIND BECAUSE EVERY DAY THAT WE
WORK WE TALK ABOUT TITLES AND
ZONING AND HOUSES AND THE
HOUSING DENSITY AND ALL SORTS
OF TOPICS THAT PROBABLY MANY
OTHER PROFESSIONS DON'T TALK
ABOUT ON A DAILY BASIS OVER A
MONTH AGO I'M PART OF A GROUP
THAT HAS A MASTERMIND GROUP
OF 40 TO 50 AGENTS WHO MEET AND
TALK ABOUT VARIOUS THINGS IN
THE REAL ESTATE COMMUNITY AND I
ASK EVERYBODY TO RAISE THEIR
HAND OF WHO HEARD ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN THIS
LARGE GROUP AND TWO OR THREE
PEOPLE DID.
I WOULD VENTURE TO SAY AS
AMBASSADORS FOR PEOPLE WHO WANT
TO COME TO THIS TOWN WHO WE
HELP AND ENCOURAGE TO COME TO
THIS TOWN, WHO WE CHAMPION TO
COME TO THIS TOWN TO BE THAT
ILL-INFORMED A GROUP THAT SMALL
BUSINESS IS TO BE INFORMED ON
REAL ESTATE AND WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THE TOWN WAS SCARY
AND SHOCKING AND LOOKING AT
YOUR OUTREACH, I DON'T SEE HOW
OUR STAKEHOLDER GROUP MY PEERS
OF WHICH NO IN HUNDREDS WERE
INVITED AT ANY TIME TO
PARTICIPATE TO TALK TO SHARE
WHO BELIEVE IN THE FUTURE
OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THIS WAS
OVER A MONTH AGO.
THAT LARGER GROUP IS LARGELY
NOT INFORMED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
AND ANYONE ELSE IN THE CHAMBER
I'D LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME SEEING
THE DO WE HAVE ONLINE CALLERS?
WE DO CALL WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING WITH THREE TO SIX
.
>> YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN.
OH MY NAME IS JEFF CROCKETT AND
I HAVE AN RESIDENT FOR OVER
FIFTY TWO YEARS OR FIVE OR SIX
IS KINGSLEY THE DENTIST IN THE
MIDDLE OF A DENSE NEIGHBORHOOD
OF ANN ARBOR.
I AM THE COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
OF THE COURT FOR ASSOCIATION
FOR THE FOURTH STORY IN THE
FOURTH QUARTER HISTORIC
DISTRICT SINCE THE EARLY 1980S
INABA HAS CREATED FIFTEEN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS WHICH HAVE
PROVIDED SIGNIFICANT BENEFITS
FOR THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY AND
HAVE BECOME AN INTEGRAL PART
OF OUR CULTURE.
>> THE OLD FORWARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT CREATED NINETEEN
EIGHTY THREE IS ONE OF THESE
DISTRICTS THIS NINETEEN EIGHTY
FIVE THE OLD HISTORIC DISTRICT
ASSOCIATION SUPPORTED THE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION EFFORTS
ACROSS ANN ARBOR BUT WE'VE ALSO
SUPPORTED DOWNTOWN ABILITY BY
REACHING OUT TO STUDENTS.
YOU HAVE THEM ON THE TIGER
PROGRAM AND THE INTER
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL.
WE REACHED OUT TO THE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT SECTION OF THE
POLICE TO MAKE OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
SAFER AND WE RECENTLY ORGANIZED
A PANEL DISCUSSION ON SAFE
SIDEWALKS AND STREETS IN TWO
THOUSAND TWENTY FOUR WE
RECEIVED THE COMMUNITY SERVICE
AWARD FOR THE MICHIGAN HISTORIC
PRESERVATION NETWORK.
UNFORTUNATELY WE HAVE LEARNED
THAT THE DISTRICT DISTRICTS HAD
NOT BEEN INCLUDED IN THE OTHER
CHARACTERS SECTION OF THE
CONFERENCE PLAN AND THEY NEED
TO BE SINCE THE DISTRICT NAMES
AND MAP ARE AVAILABLE ON THE
CITY'S WEBSITE IT WOULD BE
FAIRLY TRANSFER THIS
INFORMATION TO AN HISTORIC
DISTRICT PAGE IN THE OTHER
CHARACTER AREAS SECTION OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THE FOLLOWING REPRESENTS THE
TEXT YOU CAN CONSIDER.
>> IN 1970 THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN PASSED THE LOCAL
HISTORIC DISTRICT ACT 169 WHICH
SAFEGUARD THE COMMUNITY'S
HERITAGE BY ALLOWING LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS TO ADOPT AN
ORDINANCE THAT CONTAINED DESIGN
REVIEW GUIDELINES BASED ON
NATIONAL STANDARDS DISTRICT
DISTRICTS HAVE PLAYED AN
IMPORTANT ROLE IN PRESERVING
AND OBVIOUS CULTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL LEGACY SINCE THE
EARLY 1980S.
>> THE 15 ANNIVERSARY DISTRICTS
INCLUDE AND STREET BROADWAY
COBBLESTONE FARM DIVISION
STREET EAST LIBERTY SOLIUM
FOURTH AND LIBERTY STREET MAIN
STREET WHERE THE BREWERY FOURTH
WARD OWI ROBERT AND IRMA HADEN
HOUSE STATE STREET AND
WASHINGTON.
>> RECENTLY HISTORIC DISTRICT
ASSOCIATIONS HAVE PLAYED A KEY
ROLE IN PLANNING PROJECTS AND
EVENTS FOR ANN ARBOR THIRTY
THOUSAND TWENTY FOUR
BICENTENNIAL INCLUDING THE
BICENTENNIAL EVENT ITSELF.
IT IS WELL RECOGNIZED HISTORIC
DISTRICTS ATTRACT TOURISTS,
EDUCATE THE PUBLIC AND ENTER
HERITAGE, PROVIDE WORK FOR
LOCAL TRADESPEOPLE, ATTRACT
TALENT AND INVESTMENT AND RAISE
PROPERTY.
WE EXPECT HISTORIC DISTRICTS TO
CONTINUE.
>> THERE ARE MANY CONTRIBUTIONS
WELL IN OUR RESEARCH CENTER 80
SMART TOURS PROVIDE A
CONVENIENT WAY TO SEE AND LEARN
MORE ABOUT IN ARBOR'S RICH
ARCHITECTURAL AND CULTURAL
CRAFT.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION
MARY HENDERSON.
GET THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING.
THANK YOU.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, I WANT TO START BY
ENCOURAGING ANYONE WHO HAS
CONCERNS ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THE LACK
OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT TO
CONSIDER SIGNING THE ELECTRONIC
PETITION THAT IS CIRCULATING
ASKING THE CITY TO SUSPEND THE
PLANNING PROCESS UNTIL ALL
RESIDENTS ARE FULLY INFORMED
ABOUT THE PLAN.
TO GET THE LINK TO THIS
ELECTRONIC PETITION, PLEASE
EMAIL HETTA AND TO CONTACT AT
GMAIL DOT COM THAT'S AS AN
APPLE THE NUMBER TWO AND AS A
NANCY THE NO TO CONTACT AT
GMAIL DOT COM.
I'M OPPOSED TO THE ELIMINATION
OF SINGLE FAMILY AND DUPLEX
ZONING IN ANN ARBOR AND THIS IS
WHAT IS PROPOSED IN THE DRAFT
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
HOWEVER, NOWHERE IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DOES IT NOTE
THAT THE ELIMINATION OF SINGLE
FAMILY AND DUPLEX ZONING WILL
BE THE END RESULT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION CLAIMS
THAT THERE HAS BEEN SUFFICIENT
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT REGARDING THE
CURRENT PLAN BUT THAT'S NOT
TRUE.
I FIRST LEARNED ABOUT IT LESS
THAN A MONTH AGO AND ALMOST
EVERYONE I KNOW HAS ONLY
RECENTLY BECOME AWARE OF THE
PLAN AND THIS IS A CONTINUING
THEME THIS EVENING.
>> THIS IS WHAT WE'RE HEARING
FROM OTHER PEOPLE AS WELL.
I THINK PART OF THE REASON THAT
IT'S NOT BEEN ON PEOPLE'S RADAR
IS BECAUSE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS NOT BEEN
FORTHRIGHT IN LETTING
HOMEOWNERS KNOW THAT THE BOTTOM
LINE FACT WILL BE THE
ELIMINATION OF SOME SINGLE
FAMILY AND DUPLEX ZONING AND
THE CITY HAS AN OBLIGATION TO
SPELL THAT OUT.
THE CURRENT PLAN IS A 125 PAGE
DOCUMENT.
NOWHERE IS IT STATED THAT
SINGLE FAMILY AND DUPLEX ZONING
WILL BE ELIMINATED UNDER THIS
PLAN.
NPF THE COMPLAN DOCUMENT MAKES
IT SOUND LIKE SINGLE FAMILY
OWNED DUPLEX ZONING WILL BE
CAPPED WITH JUST A FEW MINOR
TWEAKS ON PAGE FIVE OF THE
DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHERE
THE FIVE KEY COMPONENTS OF THE
PLAN ARE SUMMARIZED IT SIMPLY
SAYS QUOTE MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR ADDING NEW HOMES AND
DENSIFICATION AND SINGLE FAMILY
ZONED AREAS END QUOTE.
THAT JUST MAKES IT SOUND LIKE
THE CITY WILL BE PROMOTING
GENTRIFICATION BY ADDING MORE
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES, POSSIBLY
AN EMPTY LOTS OR WHATEVER.
IT DOESN'T INFORM THE PUBLIC
THAT THE PROPOSAL IS TO ALLOW
FOR STORY APARTMENT BUILDINGS
TO BE BUILT IN WHAT ARE NOW
SINGLE FAMILY AND DUPLEX
NEIGHBORHOODS WITH THE ABILITY
OF DEVELOPERS TO COMBINE LOTS
AND BUILD OVER THE BULK OF THE
LOT OR LOTS WITH NO RESTRICTION
ON THE NUMBER OF UNITS ON PAGE
46 THIS PLAN STATES QUOTE THE
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE WE ENGAGED
ARE COMFORTABLE WITH GENTLE
DENSITY AND SINGLE FAMILY AREAS
GENTLE DENSITY IS COMMUNICATED
AS A MODEST INCREASE UP TO FOUR
UNITS.
SO THE PLAN FOR SUCCESS STORY
THE PLAN FOR A FOUR STORY
APARTMENT BUILDINGS WITH NO
RESTRICTIONS ON THE NUMBER
OF UNITS IS IN DIRECT
OPPOSITION TO THE INPUT
RECEIVED FROM THE PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT.
SO NOT ONLY TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION NOT ENGAGE WITH THE
RESIDENTS TOTALLY IGNORED THE
INPUT RECEIVED FROM THOSE WITH
WHOM IT DID ENGAGE.
AND I JUST WANT TO KNOW THAT
THE PUBLIC THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS ACKNOWLEDGED THE
CAR PLAN WILL NOT RESULT IN
LOWER HOUSING COSTS
AND
DISCOURAGE YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> HI, THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
14 30 LAS VEGAS DRIVE IN THE
FOURTH WARD.
I'LL STICK TO DISCUSSING THIS
WEEK'S READING ASSIGNMENT THE
FIRST THREE CHAPTERS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DRAFT.
IT'S CLEAR TO ME THAT A LOT
OF THOUGHT HAS GONE INTO THIS
DOCUMENT.
I THINK THE SECTION THE HISTORY
OF OUR CITY IS PARTICULARLY
VALUABLE.
IT SHOWS HOW IS ANN ARBOR HAS
GROWN OVER THE YEARS.
WE AS RESIDENTS IMPOSE
MECHANISMS AND POLICIES TO
ATTEMPT TO STIFLE THAT GROWTH.
BUT THE RESULTS OF THESE
POLICIES IS A SEVERE SHORTAGE
OF HOUSING A HUGE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE COMMUTE INTO ANN
ARBOR AND CAN'T AFFORD TO LIVE
HERE.
WE'VE BECOME AN EXPENSIVE
EXCLUSIVE COMMUNITY.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S WHAT MOST
OF US WANT NOW IN THE TWENTY
FIRST CENTURY.
>> SO IT'S TIME TO CHANGE
COURSE.
IT'S ALSO CLEAR TO ME THAT
CONTRARY TO THE CLAIMS OF SOME
VOCAL DETRACTORS, THE CITY IS
LISTENING TO US THIS IS A
DISTILLATION OF COMMUNITY INPUT
FROM RESIDENTS THROUGH
EXTENSIVE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT,
GUIDANCE FROM THE COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHO COMPRISE OUR
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
STEERING COMMITTEE, THE POLICY
DIRECTION OF OUR ELECTED
REPRESENTATIVE IS ON CITY
COUNCIL AND EXPERTIZE FROM THE
CONSULTANTS AND CITY STAFF THE
OUTREACH PROCESS HAS BEEN
SIGNIFICANT AND I APPRECIATE
THE VISION AND VALUES COMING
FROM THAT OUTREACH THAT HAVE
INFORMED THIS PLAN.
IT'S CLEAR THAT THESE ARE
WIDELY SHARED COMMUNITY VALUES.
WHILE I KNOW IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO
HAVE UNANIMOUS AGREEMENT, I'M
GLAD THERE IS SUCH STRONG
SUPPORT FOR INCREASING DENSITY
THROUGHOUT THE CITY INCLUDING
GENERAL DENSITY AND CURRENTLY
EXCLUSIONARY SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS AND BUILDING UP A
LOT DOWNTOWN AND ALONG MAJOR
CORRIDORS.
I'M EXCITED TO
SEE THIS SHARED
VISION FOR THE FUTURE OF OUR
COMMUNITY COMING TOGETHER.
I DO HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS
I'D LIKE TO SEE CLARIFIED IN
FUTURE DRAFTS.
FIRST OF ALL, ON PAGE 17 YOU
DEFINE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
AS UNDER 40 AND GO ON TO
DISCUSS PROPERTY TAX REVENUE
FROM RESIDENTIAL VERSUS
COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES.
AND PAGE 18 THERE'S A STATEMENT
THAT QUOTE LOSING THE
NONRESIDENTIAL TAX BASE WILL
SHIFT AN EVEN GREATER BURDEN
ONTO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
BOTH TRADITIONAL AND COMMERCIAL
MULTIFAMILY UNQUOTE.
THE USE OF COMMERCIAL HERE
SEEMS DIFFERENT AND PERHAPS
CONTRADICTORY.
I THINK THIS LANGUAGE COULD BE
CLARIFIED ALSO IT'S IMPORTANT
TO KNOW THAT MANY COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES ARE IN FACT
PRIMARILY RESIDENTIAL IN
NATURE.
SOME OF THE PROPERTIES THAT
HAVE OUR HIGHEST TAX REVENUE
PER ACRE ARE LARGE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS DOWNTOWN A COMMERCIAL
PROPERTY LIKE MAPLE VILLAGE
SHOPPING CENTER IS QUITE
DIFFERENT FROM A COMMERCIAL
PROPERTY LIKE FOUNDRY LOFTS AND
I'M NOT SURE THIS FRAMING
CAPTURES THAT VERY WELL.
SECOND AND THERE'S NO MENTION
OF ANY TAX EXPENDITURES FUNDING
EDUCATION QUOTE HALF OF THE
ENTIRE EXPENDITURE DURING OUR
SECOND FUNDING WITH ONLY A
QUARTER GOING BACK TO THE CITY
TO PAY FOR SERVICES UNQUOTE.
I'M NOT SURE IF THE DIAGRAM
PROPERLY CAPTURES THE
COMPLEXITY OF PUBLIC SCHOOL
FUNDING IN MICHIGAN.
YOUR PROPOSAL OF NINETEEN
NINETY FOUR BECAUSE MUCH OF THE
SCHOOL FUNDING COMES IN THE
FORM PER PUPIL PER PUPIL
ALLOCATIONS FROM THE STATE AND
BECAUSE THE BOUNDARIES
OF SCHOOL DISTRICT EXTEND
BEYOND THE CITY LIMITS IT SEEMS
LIKE AN OVERSIMPLIFICATION
OVERALL I THINK THIS DRAFT PLAN
IS A HUGE STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION.
I LOOK FORWARD TO FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON THE REMAINDER
OF THE DRAFT.
>> THANK YOU FOR ALL YOU DO FOR
OUR CITY AND THANK YOU FOR
LISTENING TO ME TONIGHT.
BRAD, YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
THANK YOU BRAD FRITZE THIRTY
THIRTY LEXINGTON DRIVE IN THE
SECOND WARD RESIDENT BANABA
SINCE NINETEEN NINETY THREE
FIRST I WILL GO.
THANK YOU ALL FOR A LONG SLOG
AT THIS THING.
UNLIKE MANY I HAVE BEEN
WATCHING AND HAVE BEEN ENGAGED
FOR AT LEAST SINCE THE
BEGINNING OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
SO I HAVE SEEN IT FROM I HAVE A
COUPLE OF QUICK COMMENTS BUT
FIRST I TOOK A LITTLE DIFFERENT
APPROACH.
I COMPARE OUR PLAN TO SEVERAL
BENCHMARKS WILMINGTON, DELAWARE
ROYAL OAK AND GRAND RAPIDS AND
WILMINGTON I PICKED BECAUSE
THEY WERE DONE BY THE INTERFACE
STUDIOS FOLKS OUR SAME
CONSULTING FIRM AND I MUST SAY
WILMINGTON GOT A LOT BETTER
BANG FOR THEIR BUCK THAN WE DID
ANYWAY.
SO THREE POINTS THAT I'D LIKE
YOU TO CONSIDER.
NUMBER ONE HARD FACTS AND DATA
STATISTICALLY REPRESENTATIVE
SEVERAL SPEAKERS TONIGHT
MENTIONED ARE THESE
REPRESENTATIVES I'VE BEEN ASKED
AND THEN TOLD NO THEY'RE NOT
FOR SOMETHING OF THIS
IMPORTANCE.
LET'S GET SOME GOOD HARD DATA.
A SECOND PIECE OF OUR DATA WE
COULD CONSIDER THE 800 POUND
GORILLA IN ANN ARBOR WHAT ARE
YOU EVMS PLANTS?
THEY HAVE A PARALLEL PLANNING
PROCESS GOING ON RIGHT NOW.
WE SHOULD BE TALKING AND
INTEGRATING THAT POINT TO
GENUINE INPUT.
YES, YOU HAD A LOT OF SESSIONS.
MY PERCEPTION OF THE ONES I
PERCEIVE PERSISTED IN WERE THEY
WERE 90 PERCENT OUTPUT AND
SELLING THE PLAN ONLY TEN
PERCENT COLLECTING INPUT AND
THEN ON VERY NARROW GROUNDS.
SO PLEASE LET'S HAVE SOME
SPECIFIC INPUT AND A GENUINE
BASIS.
WE'VE HEARD A LOT OF PEOPLE
HERE WHO HAVE NEEDS THAT ARE
QUITE DISTINCT FROM WHAT WE SAY
IN THE PLANT AND FINALLY LET'S
CONSIDER SPECIFIC
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I LIVE IN ORCHARD HILLS
MAPLEWOOD ON THE NORTHEAST SIDE
PEOPLE LIVE IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE.
PEOPLE LIVE IN BURNS PARK.
WE DO NOT HAVE A ONE SIZE FITS
ALL SITUATION.
WHAT WORKS IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
WILL NOT WORK ELSEWHERE.
WHAT WORKS IN BURNS PARK OR
ADJACENT TO CAMPUS WON'T WORK
HERE.
BUT YET THE PLAN DOESN'T REALLY
CONSIDER THAT AT ALL.
SO PLEASE I WILL QUOTE STEPHEN
SCHWARTZ, THE COMPOSER THERE IS
NO JURY BUT SO FAR YOU CANNOT
STOP CHANGE DIRECTION.
LET'S TAKE OUR TIME.
SEND THE CONSULTANTS BACK TO
WORK, FIX THE DATA, GET SOME
GENUINE INPUT AND THEN LET'S GO
FORWARD WITH A GOOD PLAN.
>> THANK YOU
FOR NEVER ENDING
WITH FIVE THREE FOUR.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
GOOD EVENING STOLLBERG CALLING
FROM ONE TO ZERO TO TRAVIS
STREET IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR
SOME OF MY POINT YOU'VE ALREADY
BEEN COVERED SO I'LL CUT TO THE
CHASE AND BE A LITTLE BIT MORE
HARSH THAN OTHER CALLERS.
>> THIS IS THE EMPEROR HAS NO
CLOTHES FOR ALL OF US
COMMENTER'S COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
COMMISSION MEMBERS, STAFF
CONSULTANTS FOR THE DRAFT PLAN
THIS IS NOT A GOOD PLAN.
>> WE KNOW FROM LOOKING AT
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE PLANS USE
THE SAME CONSULTANTS BUT THEY
CAN PRODUCE A PLAN WORTH THE
ELECTRONS THAT IS VIRTUALLY
PRINTED ARE IF NOT COMPARABLE.
OURS IS NOT WORTHY OF THE
DIRECTOR NOR THE TIME AND MONEY
SPENT ON IT.
SO WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THAT
IN THE CITY?
TELL THE CONSULTANT THAT WE
DON'T WANT THE VERSION THAT
OTHER CITIES GOT.
WE WANT THE CARTOONS EQUIPS AND
THE PLANNING FOR DUMMIES
VERSION OF IT IS KNOWN FOR ITS
HIGHLY EDUCATED POPULATION
REALLY DID WE ASK FOR THIS?
THERE'S A METHOD OF BEING
REPEATED BY SOME THAT MAKES IT
SEEM LIKE WE GET NO DETAILS NOW
AND THAT THEY ALL COME LATER
AFTER THE PLAN IS ADOPTED BY
THE CITY COUNCIL AT THE END
OF TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND WHEN
THE ZONING CODE IS BEING
WRITTEN IN TWENTY TWENTY SIX WE
THERE'S ONLY ONE NUMERICAL
DETAIL THAT I FOUND IN THE
DRAFT PLAN REGARDING BUILDINGS
AND THAT'S A HOTLY CONTESTED
NUMBER FOUR STORY A CITY
COUNCIL CITY COUNCIL'S
RESOLUTION.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
ACKNOWLEDGED MORE DETAILS OR
LESS DETAILS CAN BE PROVIDED AT
THIS STAGE I'M IN THE CAMP THAT
BELIEVES MORE DETAIL IS BETTER.
>> THIS DRAFT PLAN IS IF THE
EXTREME EDGE OF DETAILS GARBAGE
IN, GARBAGE OUT WE NEED A LOT
MORE MEAT IN THIS PLAN.
LET'S GO TO MORE DATA, LESS
PROPAGANDA AND SOME LEVEL
OF DETAIL.
>> THE ZONING CODE MUST BE
BASED ON THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
IF WE HAVE A VAGUE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT WE'RE
MAKING IT UP AS WE GO ALONG
WELL WE CRAFTED OUR OWN INCOME.
>> IF IT'S NOT IN THE PLAN,
MORE SEGMENTS SHOULDN'T BE IN
THE CODE BECAUSE THE CODE BY
LAW HAS TO BE BASED ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
LUCKILY YOU HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO EDIT THIS DRAFT
PLAN AND SOME OF YOU HAVE
STATED THAT YOU AGREE THAT MORE
DETAILS ARE NEEDED NOW I THANK
YOU FOR YOUR EFFORTS ABOUT TO
BEGIN
ERIC.
I THINK YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS ERIC IVANCICH.
I'M CALLING FROM TOWN BOULEVARD
IN THE THIRD WARD.
I WASN'T PLANNING ON SPEAKING
THIS EVENING BUT HEARING SOME
OF THE PREVIOUS SPEAKERS
INSPIRED ME TO SAY JUST A VERY
LITTLE BIT HERE FIRST OF ALL, I
WOULD LIKE TO ECHO EVERYONE
WHO'S THANK THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR ALL THEIR HARD
WORK AND PLANNING STAFF AS
WELL.
>> I THINK THE DRAFT VERSION IS
VERY PROMISING AND I THINK
WE'RE HEADING VERY MUCH IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION.
I ALSO APPRECIATE ALL THE
ENGAGEMENT THAT CITY STAFF AND
THE CONSULTANT HAVE ENGAGED IN
PREVIOUSLY GETTING TO THIS
PARTICULAR POINT.
ONE PREVIOUS CALLER SAID THAT
THERE'S NO HINT OR OR CLAIM
THAT A SINGLE ARE ONE OR TWO
SINGLE OR DUPLEX HOUSING ZONES
WILL WILL CHANGE AS A RESULT
OF THIS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
THAT'S JUST NOT TRUE.
I'M HERE LOOKING AT PAGE NUMBER
FIFTY THREE OF THE PLAN AND
TALKS ABOUT THE STRATEGIES
OF HOW WE'LL ACHIEVE
DENSIFICATION.
>> FIRST OF ALL THE VERY BASIC
WORD DENSE DENSIFY YOUR ID
MEANS TO CHANGE THE RATIO
OF HOW MANY PEOPLE PER HELP OR
A. SO WE KNOW THAT IT'S GOING
TO ALLOW MORE PEOPLE TO LIVE IN
THE SAME AMOUNT OF SPACE IN THE
FUTURE.
ADDITIONALLY, THE FIRST
STRATEGY IS ALLOW FOR MORE
DENSITY IN ALL RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS AND ENCOURAGE DENSER
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING IN PLACES
WITH PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE AND
ONE POINT TWO IS DENSIFY THE
TYPES OF HOUSING THROUGH
UNIVERSAL DESIGN AND MISSING
MIDDLE HOUSING STRATEGY.
SO I THINK THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS VERY CLEAR ON THIS
PARTICULAR FRONT AND THAT CLAIM
IS JUST NOT BACKED UP BY THE
FACTS.
AGAIN, THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR
WORK AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
SEEING HOW THE DRAFT PLAN
EVOLVES.
>> TAKE CARE.
NO MORE CALLERS TO GET IT JUST
A MOMENT
.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT I AM CLOSING THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT TAKES US TO
ITEM NUMBER SEVEN ON OUR
AGENDA.
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING, MR.
LEONARD FOR THE TUESDAY, MAY
6TH
.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING
STARTING AT FIVE THIRTY PM WE
HAVE ONE NEW PUBLIC HEARING
SCHEDULED BUT IT IS THREE ONE
THREE BROWN CAUGHT SIGHT PLAN
FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL PRODUCT NO ESP TWENTY
FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO ONE EIGHT
ON THE EIGHT TO STREAM SYSTEM.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED SEVEN
STOREY BUILDING WITH THIRTY
EIGHT RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM
UNITS.
THIRTY THREE PARKING SPACES
WILL BE PROVIDED ON SITE
VEHICLE ACCESS TO THE SITE IS
PROPOSED FROM THE EXISTING
ALLEY BETWEEN KATHERINE AND
EAST KINGSLY.
THE DEVELOPMENT WOULD REQUIRE
DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL OF THE
CURRENT STRUCTURE.
THE PROJECT IS PURSUING LEED
SILVER CERTIFICATION AND IS ITS
OWN D TO DOWNTOWN INTERFACE.
THANK YOU MR RUDDOCK.
WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
I'M MOVING ON TO REGULAR
BUSINESS ITEM NUMBER NINE THIS
IS PETITION TWO EIGHT FOUR FIVE
SOUTH STATE STREET BARBASOL
SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
I PROPOSE SITE PLAN TO BE TO
CONSTRUCT APPROXIMATELY 15 NEW
BUILDINGS AND DOWNTOWN STYLE
DEVELOPMENT AROUND TWO EXISTING
BUILDINGS AT SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN
AND SEVEN EIGHT NINE EISENHOWER
BOULEVARD NEW BUILDINGS INCLUDE
A HOTEL, EIGHT RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS, RESTAURANT BUILDINGS
AND THREE PARKING STRUCTURES.
THE DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS
NINETY THREE THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET OF NEW
COMMERCIAL SPACE APPROXIMATE
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY HOTEL
ROOMS APPROXIMATELY EIGHT
HUNDRED AND FORTY APARTMENTS OR
CONDOMINIUM UNITS INCLUDING TWO
HUNDRED AND THIRTY AFFORDABLE
UNITS AND APPROXIMATELY TWO
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED VEHICULAR
PARKING SPACES.
CONSTRUCTION IS PLANNED IN FIVE
PHASES.
TWENTY THREE AND A HALF ACRE
SITE IS ZONED ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS POSTPONEMENT
SO LET'S START WITH THE MOTION
WHERE DO WE DID THE PETITION
AND THEN GO FROM THERE I WILL
INVITE THE PETITIONER TO COME
UP AND PRESENT ONE TO JUST AS A
GENERAL INTRODUCTION WE ARE
RECOMMENDING POSTPONE OF THIS
BUT I THOUGHT THAT IT WAS
APPROPRIATE GIVEN THE SIZE
OF THIS PETITION TO GIVE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AN EARLY
OPPORTUNITY TO SEE IT.
I WOULD ASK THAT THE COMMISSION
THINK OF THIS AS A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY FOR ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE
PROBABLY AT THE SUBSEQUENT
CONSIDERATION OF IT BECAUSE
OF THAT PROJECT SIZE.
I ALSO DO WANT TO NOTE THAT I
HAVE INVOKED SOME OF MY
PLANNING MANAGER DISCRETION AND
OFFERED THEM A TWENTY MINUTE
WINDOW TO PRESENT THE PROJECT
RATHER THAN THE TYPICAL TEN
MINUTES.
SO WE JUST GOING TO START WITH
THE PETITIONER'S PRESENTATION
FIRST.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU MRS REBEL ADVANCE
YAISH TO YOU THAT LADY.
>> YEAH WE'LL LOAD IT UP HERE
JUST GIVE US ONE MINUTE AND
THEN WE CAN ALL JUST ADVANCE IT
UP ON YOUR VERBAL CUES.
ALEXIS ARE YOU ARE YOU GOING TO
BE ADVANCED OR IF THAT'S OR WE
COULD DO IT EITHER WAY
WHATEVER'S EASIEST TRY PLUGGING
IN WHAT COULD GO WRONG.
THERE'S ONE IN HERE I PULL IT
.
LET'S SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
RIGHT.
TELE'S PLANNER
STEP IT LOOKS
LIKE IT'S WORKING OK, YOU KNOW
HOW TO MAKE A FALSE SCREEN TO
JUST TAKE A COUPLE OF MINUTES
WHILE YOU ALL DO THIS.
THAT'S GREAT.
LET'S SUSPEND FOR FIVE MINUTES
.
WE WILL COMMENCE OUR
PRESENTATION FROM THE
PETITIONER'S THERE.
OK, GREAT LEFTERIS COOL.
ALL RIGHT.
HI, I'M JEFF HARTMANN WITH
OXFORD AND WE'RE LOCAL
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE FIRM
LIKE OXFORD.
I'M A TOWNEE I GREW UP HERE
PRODUCT OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEM
THURSTON KLEGG HURON AND
EVENTUALLY U OF M AND AFTER
COLLEGE I FOUNDED OXFORD.
WE ARE ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
LOCAL AND WE'RE ALWAYS WORKING
TO IMPROVE THE NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT WERE IN AND AFTER SEVEN
YEARS OF WORK IT'S SO EXCITING
TO BE HERE RIGHT NOW.
FORGIVE ME I'M JUST LIKE
BESIDES JOGGING DOWN THE STREET
YOU GUYS ANYWAY EARLY PUBLIC
COMMENT WHICH IS COOL BUT I'M
REALLY EXCITED TO BE HERE TO
INTRODUCE YOU TO OUR AND THE
TEAM BEHIND SO WE'LL START WITH
WHY THE SOUTH SIDE?
WHY HERE?
OK, I DON'T EVEN REALIZE IT'S
THE MAIN ENTRANCE TO ANN ARBOR.
SOME PEOPLE THINK THE MAIN
ENTRANCE ANN ARBOR, ALMOST HALF
THE COMMUTER TRAFFIC COMES IN
AND OUT OF STATE.
NINETY FOUR EVERY DAY.
IT'S ALSO THE CENTER
OF WASHINGTON COUNTY'S OFFICE
AND RETAIL.
THAT'S THE BIGGEST
CONCENTRATION OF THE COUNTY
RIGHT THERE.
>> BIG PLUSES.
IT'S ALSO FAR LESS EXPENSIVE TO
BUILD DOWN THERE THAN IT IS
DOWNTOWN AND OXFORD IS HEAVILY
INVESTED IN THIS AREA AND WE
SPENT
A LOT OF TIME THINKING
ABOUT WHAT CAN WE DO BETTER
DOWN THERE.
>> ONE EXAMPLE YOU GUYS MAY BE
FAMILIAR WITH IS THE RECENT
ESTABLISHMENT OF A BUSINESS A
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT ZONE AND
WITH THE HELP OF OUR NEIGHBORS
AND SPARK WE'RE NOW WORKING TO
WORK ON THE ESTHETIC AND THE
PEDESTRIAN WALKABILITY OF THAT
AREA.
>> OK, SO I HEAR A SEVEN SEVEN
SEVEN AND SEVEN EIGHT NINE
EXISTING OFFICE BUILDINGS AND A
LOT OF PARKING LOT.
>> IN FACT WHAT SPARKED A LOT
OF THIS YEARS AGO WAS GOING UP
HIGH AND SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN AND
LOOKING DOWN AT 10 ACRES
OF PARKING LOT, TEN ACRES
OF ASPHALT, TEN ACRES
OF IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
IT'S GROSS RIGHT?
AND SO WE WE HAD TO BE A BETTER
WAY AND START THINKING ABOUT
WHAT WE DO COULD BUILD
SOMETHING HERE AND WE WENT AND
SPOKE WITH SOME OF THE PEOPLE
IN PLANNING AND WE SHARE IDEAS
AND THEY BASICALLY TOOK IT FROM
THERE AND THEY SPENT THE NEXT
FEW YEARS WORKING ON THIS ONE
AND EVENTUALLY THAT WHOLE AREA
BECAME ZONED ONE AND AND NOW
WITH TCE ONE WE HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS
PLACEMAKING AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY ON A SCALE
NEEDED TO CREATE THE CHANGE
THAT ABRE WANTS.
OK, SO WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
THIS IS A SOUTHERN GATEWAY THAT
CAN BECOME NOT JUST A LOCAL BUT
A REGIONAL HIGHLIGHT WE'RE
PLACEMAKING HERE HOUSING WHERE
THERE ISN'T ANY HOUSING THAT
WILL APPEAL TO A WIDE AUDIENCE
FROM AFFORDABLE TO MARKET RATE
TO CONDOS HOUSING WITH LEVEL
OF AMENITIES BEYOND ANY OTHER
DEVELOPMENTS IN TOWN
THAT'S
FULLY ELECTRIFIED MULTIFAMILY
THE AFFORDABLE PEACE AND THE ON
THE MARKET RATE WITH THINGS
LIKE ENHANCED THERMAL BUILDING
ENVELOPE'S TO TO MAKE THAT
ELECTRIFICATION MAKES SENSE
ENERGY STORAGE APPLIANCES A LOT
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES
THAT YOU COMMONLY HERE BUT TO
ME ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
ASPECTS IS THAT WE'RE BUILDING
DENSITY TRANSIT CORRIDOR
REDUCING VEHICULAR TRIPS AND
LOWERING THE VEHICLE.
>> MILES TRAVELED ACTUALLY ROAD
THAT TWICE IN HERE REDUCING
VEHICULAR TRIPS AND LOWERING
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED.
I THINK THAT'S SO IMPORTANT
ALONG WITH GETTING CARS OFF THE
ROAD.
WE'RE ALSO CREATING A HEALTHIER
LIFESTYLE FOR OUR RESIDENTS AND
A PLACE SURROUNDING RESIDENTS,
NEIGHBORS CAN WALK OR BIKE TO.
THIS IS A MULTIMODAL APPROACH
PRIORIES PLACED ON SIDEWALKS,
BIKE LANES AND SAFE STREET
CROSSINGS MAKING CAR TRAVEL OR
NON CAR TRAVEL MORE APPEALING
ENHANCED DEDICATED BIKE PATH
CONNECTIVITY AND IMPROVED
ACCESS TO OUR BUS SYSTEM WHEN
PEOPLE LIVE AND WORK NEAR
TRANSIT, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
BECOMES MORE VIABLE AND
FREQUENT.
>> WE'RE PLANNING TO IMPROVE
THE BUS STOPS AT THE SHELTERS
AT ST. AND EISENHOWER.
OK, SO HOW DO WE DO THAT
BECAUSE OXFORD WE HISTORICALLY
BUY, RENOVATE, MANAGE.
WE ARE NOT THE BIG DEVELOPERS
I'VE NEVER STOOD HERE IN FRONT
OF YOU TALKING ABOUT DOING A
BIG PROJECT.
WE NEED TO FIND SOMEONE THAT
HAS DONE THIS SUCCESSFULLY WITH
A GREAT TRACK RECORD AND AFTER
SPENDING TWO YEARS OF SEARCHING
FOR A DEVELOPER TO HELP US WE
FOUND CRAWFORD HOYNE IN DUBLIN,
OHIO THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT
THEY'VE DONE.
>> THIS IS BRIDGE PARK.
THIS IS GROUND FLOOR RETAIL
APARTMENTS AND OFFICE ABOVE.
THIS IS NOT JUST A DEVELOPMENT
.
THIS IS THIS HAS ENERGY.
THESE GUYS ARE NOT JUST HIGHLY
EXPERIENCED.
>> THEY'VE DONE WHAT THEY'VE
DONE OVER TWO BILLION DOLLARS
OF MIXED USE PROJECTS LIKE BUT
THEY ALSO SHARE SIMILAR CORE
VALUES.
THESE ARE LONG TERM PLAYERS.
THEY'RE LIKE US.
>> THEY WANT TO BE A PART OF A
COMMUNITY AND STAY.
THEY'RE NOT THE KIND
OF DEVELOPERS THAT JUST COME
IN, BUILD SOMETHING, MOVE ON.
>> THEY WANT TO BE A PART
OF THIS.
THEY WANT TO GROW WITH US.
THEY DON'T WANT TO SELL IT, OK?
THEY'RE PLAYING FOR THE LONG
TERM AND THEY REALLY MAKE AN
INVESTMENT IN WHAT THEY DO.
THESE ARE SOME IMAGES FROM
BRIDGE PARK CONCERTS, FARMERS
MARKETS.
THEY CREATE THIS ENERGY WITHIN
THE DEVELOPMENT THAT PEOPLE
FROM ALL OVER COME TO IF YOU
ASK SOMEONE IN THE DUBLIN AREA
OR DARE I SAY THE COLUMBUS
MARKET YOU'LL GET A REALLY GOOD
RESPONSE ABOUT BRIDGE PARK
PEOPLE KNOW ABOUT IT NOW LET'S
TALK ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT THIS
IS OURSELF THIS IS OVER ONE
THOUSAND MULTIPLE UNITS AND
WE'RE PARTNERING WITH JENNIFER
HALL AND THE HOUSING MISSION SO
THAT TWO HUNDRED OF THOSE ONE
THOUSAND OVER TWO HUNDRED ARE
AFFORDABLE OR TWO HUNDRED SIXTY
PERCENT AMAA UNITS ALONG WITH
ABOUT THIRTY FOR SALE CONDOS
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF FEET
OF GROUND FLOOR WALKABLE
COMMERCIAL SPACE THAT BENEFITS
THE WHOLE AREA SO YOU NO LONGER
HAVE TO PLAY HUMAN FROGGER TO
GET ACROSS THE STREET TO
BRIBERY OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
INSTEAD RIGHT THERE WALKABLE TO
THE ROUGHLY EIGHT HUNDRED
THOUSAND PLUS SQUARE FEET
OF OFFICE RIGHT THERE.
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY KEY FULL
SERVICE HOTEL AND PUBLIC PLAZAS
AND A NEARLY TWO ACRE PARK IN
THE CENTER AND I SHOULD MENTION
TWO ACRE PARK IS ACTUALLY
DESIGNED SO THAT YOU SEE YOU
CAN BLOCK OFF THE STREETS AND
MAKE IT AS MUCH AS FIVE ACRES.
I'M REFERRING TO THE THE GREEN
SPACE IS ABOUT TWO ACRES
SURROUNDED BY THOSE THREE
ORANGE BUILDINGS.
THOSE ARE GROUND THOSE ARE
STOREY AND A HALF TO TWO STOREY
JEWEL BOXES RETAIL.
SO IT'S A VERY PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY, VERY WALKABLE
ENVIRONMENT TO HELP MAKE THIS
HAPPEN.
WE'VE AS I SAID, PARTNER WITH
CRAWFORD HOYNE AND BROUGHT IN
THE ARCHITECTURE FIRM OF LORIK
SARGENT AND THE ENGINEERING
FIRM MIDWESTERN CONSULTING BOTH
REALLY GOOD FAMILIAR NAMES.
I HOPE YOU'VE I KNOW YOU'VE
WORKED WITH SOME GUYS QUITE A
BIT AND SO WITH THAT IT'S MY
PLEASURE TO INTRODUCE TO YOU
THAT CHERRY WITH ELAS.
THANK YOU, JEFF.
GOOD EVENING.
PLAYING COMMISSION MY IS MATT
CHERRY.
I DIRECT THE URBAN DESIGN
STUDIO AT LUREX SERGEANT.
WE HAVE AN OFFICE IN DOWNTOWN
DETROIT NOW WITH ME TONIGHT IS
MY COLLEAGUE ON ANDERSON.
I'VE BEEN DOING MASTER PLANNING
AND REDEVELOPMENT OF COMPLEX
SITES LIKE THIS FOR THE LAST
TWO DECADES ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY AND IT'S PRETTY FUNNY
BECAUSE TWENTY TWO YEARS GO I
DID MY URBAN DESIGN PROJECT AT
U OF M TALBAN ON THE MALL
PROPERTY.
SO IT'S IRONIC THAT YOU'RE BACK
TWENTY TWO YEARS LATER LATER
DOING INFILL STUDIES AND
DEVELOPMENT FOR SOMETHING
REALLY, REALLY CLOSE TO THERE.
SO IT'S BEEN REALLY AWESOME TO
WORK ON THIS WITH THIS TEAM AND
THIS CLIENT.
WE'VE DONE AN EXHAUSTIVE
MULTIYEAR PLANNING FOR FOR THE
SITE WE STARTED THREE OR FOUR
YEARS AGO.
I THINK WE'VE PROBABLY DRAWN IT
60 OR 70 TIMES MAYBE MORE BUT
IT'S A COMPLEX SITE AND THERE'S
A LOT OF ENERGY, A LOT
OF REALLY EXCITING THINGS AND I
THINK WE'RE REALLY, REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT WHERE WE ARE.
THE BIGGEST SORT OF NUT TO
CRACK IS THIS WAS ORIGINALLY A
STANDALONE OFFICE PARK AND SO
IT WAS ORIGINALLY DESIGNED
PRIMARILY FOR CARS.
SO HOW DO YOU RECONCEIVE IT IN
A WAY THAT IS DESIGNED
PRIMARILY FOR PEDESTRIAN?
SO THIS IS SORT OF OUR
APPROACH.
THIS IS JUST THE GENERAL
FRAMEWORK FIRST BREAKDOWN
OF SUPERBLOCK.
THE SUPERBLOCK IS TWELVE
HUNDRED THIRTEEN HUNDRED FEET
WIDE.
THAT'S ABOUT THREE TIMES THE
SIZE OF A TYPICAL URBAN BLOCK
CREATE A NETWORK OF WALKABLE
PEDESTRIAN SCALE BLOCKS WHICH
WE'VE TRIED TO DO RETROFITTING
WITH SOME OF THE EXISTING
STREETS AND DRIVEWAYS THAT ARE
THERE DIVERSIFY THE LAND USES
AND BUILDING TYPES TRANSFORM IT
IS BASICALLY A DRIVEWAY INTO A
INTO A MAIN STREET THAT'S
ACTIVATED BY A GROUND FLOOR
COMMERCIAL CREATE HIGH QUALITY
PUBLIC SPACES AND INTEGRATE
MOBILITY AND TRANSIT OPTIONS.
SO IT'S KIND OF THE GENERAL
FRAMEWORK THAT'S GENERAL PART
OF WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT.
AND THEN JEFF TOUCHED ON THIS A
MINUTE AGO.
I JUST TOUCH ON A FEW SORT
OF DESIGN ORIENTED THINGS THAT
CENTRAL PLAZA AS SOMEBODY WITH
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE DEGREE
I'M VERY, VERY EXCITED.
OUR TEAM IS REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM'S
COMMITMENT TO QUALITY AND
PLACEMAKING IN THAT PLAZA I
COME BACK TO THAT IN A SECOND
BUT IT REALLY IS SORT OF THE
BEATING HEART OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND JEFF MENTIONED
THE MIX OF HOUSING TYPE SIZES
AND PRICE POINTS.
WE HAVE A HOTEL COMPONENT TO
SERVE ANCHORESS THE CORNER
CREATING SOME PUBLIC SPACE
AROUND IT.
WE'VE REALLY STUDIED HARD SERVE
LOCAL NEIGHBORHOOD BIKE
IMPAIRED CONNECTIVITY TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND
PERIPHERAL
CONNECTIONS AND MAKING SURE
WE'RE CONNECTING TO THOSE IN
DIFFERENT WAYS, EMBRACING A MIX
OF TRANSPORTATION MODES AND
WE'VE REALLY, REALLY TRIED TO
DESIGN THE STREETS PRIMARILY AS
PEDESTRIAN AND SO IT REALLY
SORT OF READS AS SORT OF THIS
URBAN FABRIC OF PEDESTRIAN
SCALE STREETS WITH NODES
OF PUBLIC SPACE SORT STRUNG
ALONG IT HOPEFULLY MOBILITY
POINT OF VIEW.
WE KIND OF SEE IT AS CONNECTING
GAPS IN THAT LARGER NETWORK SO
YOU HAVE BIKE LANES ON
EISENHAUER FOR PART OF IT.
YOU HAVE BIKE LANES ON STATE
STREET, YOU HAVE BIKE LANES TO
THE NORTH.
THIS IS REALLY CONNECTING THAT
SYSTEM TOGETHER AND SO AND
SIMILARLY WITH BUS LOCAL BUS
AND IN FUTURE BRT HOPEFULLY AND
SO JEFF MENTIONED THE BUS
STOPS.
TOM, OUR CIVIL ENGINEER LIKES
TO CALL THE SUPER BUS STOPS
WHICH IS REALLY COOL THAT SORT
OF ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE
COMMITMENT TO TO TRANSIT ON
HERE.
WE'RE REALLY SORT OF REACHING
OUT TO IT PLACEMAKING I THINK
THE IDEA HERE IS THAT CENTRAL
SPACE REALLY IS SORT OF A
LIVING ROOM OF THE WHOLE
DEVELOPMENT.
IT READS LIKE A PLAZA.
IT SHOULD READ LIKE A PLAZA CAR
SORT OF SORT OF ALLOWED TO
DRIVE THROUGH IT POLITELY IF A
MOTORIST FEELS SLIGHTLY
UNCOMFORTABLE, THAT'S PROBABLY
GOOD BUT IT'S REALLY SHOULD BE
PRIMARILY PEDESTRIAN.
IT BECOMES AN AMENITY FOR
DAYTIME WORKERS, FUTURE
RESIDENTS AND VISITORS ALIKE.
AND AGAIN, I JUST THINK THIS
TEAM'S COMMITMENT TO THE
PLACEMAKING WHEN WE FIRST
STARTED THIS THE DEVELOPERS
SAID THE ARCHITECTURE IS
IMPORTANT BUT IT'S THE SPACE
BETWEEN THE BUILDINGS THAT WILL
MAKE IT AMAZING.
AND I JUST TOLD THEM NOBODY
EVER SAYS THAT SO I'M REALLY
EXCITED TO WORK FOR YOU.
SO WE STILL ARE ON IT.
DO YOU WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
GATEWAY TIME?
SO AGAIN, I AM JUST I'M AN
ARCHITECT ON THIS PROJECT WITH
OUR SURGEON.
WE HAVE AN OFFICE DOWNTOWN
DETROIT.
I'M JUST GOING TO TALK REALLY
QUICKLY OF LIKE A HUMAN
PERSPECTIVE JUST IMAGINE
YOURSELF DRIVING BY ON THE
STATE STREET AND I'M CALLING
THIS LIKE A GATEWAY TO OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'M GOING TO CALL IT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SO IMAGINE
YOURSELF DRIVING AND KIND
OF SEEING THAT ENTRANCE, THE
BUILDING AND AND THE CONNECTION
THAT INVITATION I CALL IT THAT
OPEN SPACE THERE THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN THAT LET'S SAY POSSIBLE
ENTERTAINMENT SPACE ON THE
FIRST FLOOR TO OUTDOOR THAT
PEOPLE ARE ALREADY PLAYING
THERE AND BEING VIBRANT
COMMUNITY AND YOU JUST ARE
CURIOUS WHAT'S GOING ON THERE.
YOU JUST KIND OF WANT TO COME
IN AND AND GET TO KNOW WHAT
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IS ABOUT AND
WHEN YOU FOLLOW KIND OF WALKING
LET'S SAY YOU ENTER THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEN WE
INTENTIONALLY DESIGNED THIS
BUILDING WITH LIKE I CALL IT
THE ZIGZAGGY JIGSAW DIGEX THAT
THE LITTLE NESHA IS THERE.
SO YOU WALK IN AND THE
ELEVATION'S IS NOT IN THE ONE
PLACE AND THIS WAS
INTENTIONALLY SO AS A HUMAN
WALKING YOU'RE CURIOUS WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THE OTHER NICHE
OF THE SPACE SO THERE IS A
PATIO AND THERE ARE GOING TO BE
RESTAURANTS RIGHT THERE AND
YOU'RE WALKING A LITTLE BIT
FARTHER AND THAT'S WHERE YOU
ARE ENTERING WHAT MATT WAS
SAYING THAT THE CENTER PLACE
THAT PLAZA THAT WHEN YOU CAN
SPEND YOUR EVENING SUNDAY WITH
KIDS ON AND PLAY AND IN REGARDS
TO THE ELEVATION AND THE
EXTERIOR USE OF MATERIALS THAT
WE USED ALL NATURAL TOWNE'S
MATERIALS AND TRYING TO CREATE
AND THIS ELEGANT ELEGANT
ELEVATION HERE.
SO AND MY NEXT SLIDE HERE I
JUST WANT TO TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY.
SO FIRST OF ALL, LIKE WHEN I'M
THINKING ABOUT THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD PLANNING OF THIS,
WHAT IS THE MORE SUSTAINABLE
THAT WALKING IN THE SPACE AND
USING PUBLIC TRANSPORT THIS IS
JUST ITSELF BY ITSELF.
I THINK THAT'S JUST NUMBER ONE
POINT ACTUALLY SELLS FOR THE
POINT OF SUSTAINABILITY HERE WE
SIGN THAT BUILDING THE BUILDING
AND BUILD ENVIRONMENT.
SO WE ALSO GOING TO INCORPORATE
THE WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM IN
DIVERTING DEMOLITION DEBRIS AND
AND SELECTING THEM.
WE ARE SO THE THE MULTIFAMILY
BUILDINGS ARE USING LIGHT FROM
WOOD CONSTRUCTION WHICH AS WE
KNOW WOOD AS A CARBON SEQUESTER
SO WE CAN SAY THAT WE'RE USING
LOWER BETA CARBON CARBON
MATERIALS.
WE ALSO DID ANALYSIS AND I
DON'T KNOW I KNOW THAT I DON'T
HAVE MUCH TIME HERE THAT'S
SPEEDY.
BUT WE DID SOME ANALYSIS HERE
TO COMPARE COLD FOR METAL
FRAMING TO WOOD FRAMING LET'S
SAY THIS CONSTRUCTION AND HOW
MUCH ACTUALLY THIS IS THE
CARBON THAT'S EMBEDDED IN THE
MATERIAL ITSELF.
I WAS SAYING ALL ELECTRIC
MULTIFAMILY UNITS AND THE ONE
MORE THING I WANTED TO
ACCENTUATE HERE IS THE I'VE
MENTIONED THIS HERE TOO BUT WE
ARE USING THE BUYER RETENTION
CELLS IN THE STREET STREETSCAPE
AND WE HAVE VERY DISTINCT
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD TOO.
AND ALSO TAKING REALLY BEING
REALLY CAREFUL ATTENTION TO
HEAT ISLAND EFFECT.
>> THERE'S ANYMORE BUT MAYBE MY
COLLEAGUE
MARK
, WE JUST WANT TO
MAKE QUICK MTION IN THE
PARKING THERE'S A LOT OF TALK
BECAUSE WE'RE USING PARKING
STRUCTURES.
OH MY GOD, THERE'S SO MANY
PARKING SPACES.
NO, THERE'S NOT SO MANY PARKING
SPACES.
WHEN YOU BREAK IT DOWN YOU
CONSIDER THE FACT THAT THERE'S
ALREADY ALMOST FIFTEEN HUNDRED
SPOTS.
THEY'RE REALLY ONLY ADDING
ABOUT ELEVEN HUNDRED SPOTS FOR
OVER ONE POINT TWO MILLION NEW
SQUARE FEET.
>> WE'RE ACTUALLY SUPER PARKING
EFFICIENT.
>> I'M LIKE THE MOST PARKING
EFFICIENT YOU SEE IN
DEVELOPMENTS THESE DAYS.
SO THE TEAM PUT TOGETHER THIS
LITTLE CHART JUST TO KIND
OF GIVE YOU A SENSE OF IT.
>> THEY'RE BASICALLY TALKING TO
PARKING SPOTS EVERY THREE UNITS
SO THAT IS BECAUSE IT'S A MIXED
USE DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE THE
PARKING IS SHARED DAYTIME
OFFICE, NIGHTTIME RESIDENTIAL
SO WE'RE ABLE TO MOVE IT BACK
AND FORTH
FIRST DOWN THE LIKE
TED HIRSCH WITH WESTERN
CONSULTING.
SO I GET THE THE PLEASURE
OF FOLLOWING UP ALL OF THAT
VERY INSPIRING AND EXCITING
TALK WITH THE REALLY EXCITING
STUFF UTILITIES SO PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD FOR THE SITE ON
THAT FRONT WE DO HAVE THE
BENEFIT OF UTILIZING THE
EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE IT'S
THERE BUT IN ADDITION TO THAT
WE ARE IMPROVING WATER MAIN FOR
INSTANCE CREATING THE
REDUNDANCY SYSTEMS PLANNING
ALWAYS LIKES TO SEE CREATING
ALL THE LOOPING MAINS AND
EVERYTHING SANITARY.
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF CONNECTION
POINTS OUT TO THE THE EXISTING
PUBLIC SYSTEMS ONE ACROSS BOARD
WALK OVER BY THE RAILROAD AND
THEN ONE TO THE SOUTH AND
EISENHOWER AND THEN TO TOUCH ON
STORM WATER A LITTLE BIT AND I
HAD MENTIONED, YOU KNOW, A VERY
DEDICATED AND KIND
OF THOUGHTFUL APPROACH TO THE
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT ALL IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE COUNTY
STANDARD.
WE'RE REALLY LOOKING TO
MAXIMIZE THE SUSTAINABLE
ASPECTS OF THAT WITH
INFILTRATION WHERE WE CAN
THERE'S NOT A TON OF EXISTING
AREAS THAT PROMOTE INFILTRATION
BUT WHERE WE DID FIND IT WE'RE
INCORPORATE IT AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE INTO THE DESIGN.
SO WHAT REPLACES THE EXISTING
ACCURIDE DETENTION BASINS WITH
NO INFILTRATION OR REALLY WATER
QUALITY MANAGEMENT OTHER THAN
THESE PERMANENT POOLS WE'RE
PROVIDING THE UNDERGROUND
SYSTEMS INFILTRATION, THE BIO
RETENTION CELLS THAT ANA HAD
MENTIONED AND UTILIZING THAT
EXISTING POND IN THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER FOR CONTINUING TO REDUCE
THAT AREA THAT'S DRAINING THERE
OVER THE COURSE OF THE PHASES
AND MAKING THAT KIND OF FALL IN
LINE WITH CURRENT STANDARDS
WHICH IT WOULDN'T CURRENTLY
MEET.
SO I'LL WRAP IT UP WITH THAT
AND JUST SAY THAT WE'RE ALL
EXCITED AND EAGER TO HEAR
FEEDBACK AND PARTICIPATE
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL DOWN TO STAFF
PRESENTATION PLANNER DANIEL.
THANK YOU
.
MY PRESENTATION IS GOING TO
FOCUS A LITTLE BIT MORE ON JUST
THE FACTS AND FIGURES OF THE
SITE.
WE ARE AND I WILL LOOP BACK TO
IT.
WE ARE RECOMMENDING IT.
PEOPLE WON'T WE ARE STILL SOME
DEPARTMENTS ARE STILL REVIEWING
THE SITE PLAN SO IT'S NOT QUITE
READY FOR AN APPROVAL YET
ALTHOUGH IT IS WELL ON ITS WAY
.
THIS IS A TWENTY THREE AND A
HALF ACRE SITE NORTHWEST CORNER
OF STATE AND EISENHOWER THE I
THINK IS AS CLEAR THOUGH THE
SITE IS ZONED T.C. ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT S STATE
STREET AND EAST EISENHOWER DO
HAVE TRANSIT CORRIDOR TRANSIT
CORRIDOR STREET TYPE
DESIGNATIONS.
BOARDWALK DRIVE DOES NOT AS YOU
CAN SEE ON THIS DEVELOP CONCEPT
DEVELOPMENT PLAN ON THE SCREEN
EISENHOWER'S ACROSS THE BOTTOM
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE SITE
STATE STREET IS ON THE WEST
SIDE AND BOARDWALK FORMS THE
EAST BORDER OF THE SITE SITE IS
SURROUNDED BY OFFICE LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL USES.
THERE ARE MULTI-FAMILY HOMES
LOCATED OFF SCREEN TO THE
NORTHWEST AND FARTHER ACROSS
EVEN FARTHER AWAY TOWARD THE
EAST SIDE DOES HAVE TWELVE
LANDMARK TREES AND AS THE
ONLY
EXAMPLE OF NATURAL FEATURES ON
IT, THE PROPOSED SITE PLAN HAS
FOURTEEN NEW BUILDINGS ARRANGED
IN IN THIS DOWNTOWN STYLE
DEVELOPMENT AROUND THE TWO
EXISTING SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN AND
SEVEN EIGHTY NINE EISENHAUER
BUILDING ALL OTHER EXISTING
BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES WHICH
INCLUDE A PARKING STRUCTURE,
SOME SURFACE PARKING LOTS AND A
GAS STATION WILL BE DEMOLISHED
AND REPLACED WITH THE PROPOSED
PROJECT.
THE CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
AND CONSTRUCTION IS PLANNED IN
FIVE PHASES ACCESS TO AND
THROUGH THE SITE IS PROPOSED BY
TWO STREETS IN QUOTATION MARKS
.
THESE HAVE A TOTAL BETWEEN THE
EXISTING AND PROPOSED HAVE A
TOTAL OF SIX CONNECTIONS TO THE
ADJACENT PUBLIC STREETS AND SIX
IS THE MAXIMUM NUMBER PERMITTED
FOR THE SITE.
THE STREETS ON THE MAP ARE
ACTUALLY ON THE PLAN ARE BY
DEFINITION VEHICULAR USE AREA
EXPLAINED A LITTLE BIT PUBLIC
OR PRIVATE STREETS BY
DEFINITION SERVE PROVIDE ACCESS
TO LOTS OR PARCELS AND THEN
DRIVEWAYS AND VEHICULAR USE
AREAS PROVIDE ACCESS FROM THE
STREETS TO THE BUILDING.
SO THESE ARE NOT PUBLIC STREETS
OR PRIVATE STREETS THROUGH
HERE.
THIS IS A PARKING LOT THAT HAS
BEEN DESIGNED TO MIMIC STREETS
.
TED GLAMOROUSLY MENTIONED THE
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
FOR THE SITE.
THE STAFF REPORT GOES INTO A
LITTLE BIT MORE DETAIL ABOUT
EACH PHASE.
I'LL KEEP IT A LITTLE BIT BRIEF
BUT I AM HAPPY TO ANSWER A
FOLLOW OF QUESTIONS.
I WILL SAY THAT IN PHASE ONE
WHICH STARTS IN THE UPPER RIGHT
CORNER WHICH IS THE FAR
NORTHEAST CORNER STARTS WITH
ONE APARTMENT BUILDING WITH
ABOUT TWO HUNDRED UNITS
PROBABLY TWO HUNDRED AND NINE
UNITS AS PROPOSED SPACED TWO IS
IN THE CENTER LEFT OR THE WEST
SIDE OF THE SITE.
IT INCLUDES THE TWO APARTMENT
BUILDINGS FOR MARKET RATE UNITS
AND A PARKING STRUCTURE.
ONE APARTMENT BUILDING D ONE
HAS ABOUT TWO HUNDRED SPACES B
THREE HAS ABOUT ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY SPACES AND THE PARKING
STRUCTURE WOULD HAVE CLOSE TO
EIGHT HUNDRED SPACES MAYBE
BETWEEN SEVEN AND EIGHT HUNDRED
.
PHASE THREE INCLUDES BUILDINGS
LABELED A AND THERE ARE FIVE
BUILDINGS IN PHASE THREE.
>> ANOTHER PARKING STRUCTURE,
TWO RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, ONE
MARKET DEPARTMENT TO THE SECOND
ONE BEING RESIDENTIAL
CONDOMINIUMS AND THEN TWO
OF THOSE ORANGE JUICE BOX
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
THESE FOUR HAS THE HOTEL THAT'S
IN THE BOTTOM LEFT CORNER
THAT'S THE SOUTHWEST CORNER.
THAT HOTEL IS SLATED TO HAVE
ABOUT 150 ROOMS PHASE FIVE THE
LAST PHASE IS ON THE EAST SIDE
OF THE SITE AND IT HAS A
ANOTHER APARTMENT BUILDING, TWO
APARTMENTS BUILDINGS I SHOULD
SAY THE FINAL PARKING STRUCTURE
AND THE LAST RESTAURANT
COMMERCIAL BUILDING THOSE TWO
APARTMENT BUILDINGS HAVE ABOUT
ONE HUNDRED AND TWO HUNDRED
UNITS IN THEM EACH AND ABOUT
EIGHT HUNDRED SPACES IN THE
PARKING STRUCTURE WE HAVE AS A
COLLECTIVELY AS CITY STAFF WE
HAVE REVIEWED THE PROJECT FOR
PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS WHICH
THAT HAS MET ALL OF THE
REQUIRED PROCEDURES I HAVE
LISTED IN THE STAFF REPORT ALL
THE STANDARDS FOR REVIEW AND
APPROVAL.
>> THESE ARE ACTUALLY COMMON
UNIVERSAL TO ANY TYPE
OF PROJECT AND I LISTED THEM
HERE.
TWELVE DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS
HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN OUR STAFF
REVIEWS AND THEIR COMMENTS ARE
SUMMARIZED IN THE STAFF REPORT
.
I THINK THERE ARE ABOUT EIGHT
OF THEM THAT HAVE RECOMMENDED
APPROVAL OR CONDITIONAL
APPROVAL AND ABOUT FOUR HAVE
OUTSTANDING ITEMS THAT NEED TO
BE ADDRESSED OR THEIR REVIEWS
JUST NEED TO BE COMPLETED TO
CONFIRM.
BUT I WILL MENTION THAT ALSO
JUST ON MONDAY NIGHT CITY
COUNCIL PASSED A RESOLUTION
COMMITTING PARTICIPATION IN THE
ARBOR HEALTH PROJECT BY ISSUING
BONDS TO FINANCE THE THREE
PARKING STRUCTURES AND OWNING
AND OPERATING THEM AS PUBLIC
STRUCTURES AND SO FURTHER
REVISIONS AND REVIEWS OF THE
SITE PLAN BEYOND THESE NOTED IN
THE STAFF REPORT MIGHT BE
COMING BASED ON WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATOR WORKS WITH THE
APPLICANT AND DEVELOPER TEAM.
I'LL BE A LITTLE MORE SPECIFIC
REGARDING APPROVED OR
CONDITIONALLY APPROVED REUSE.
IT HAS PASSED ITS SANITARY
MODELING REVIEW PARK PLANNING
REVIEW PLANNING DEPARTMENT
REVIEW IT'S BUILDING
ADMINISTRATION REVIEW
ENVIRONMENTAL NOTIFICATION AT
CSC WHICH STANDS FOR SOIL
EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION
CONTROL REVIEW AND WHICH IS THE
ADDRESSING PLAN REVIEW WHERE
WE'RE WHERE REVIEWS NEED TO BE
COMPLETED OR ARE REVISIONS ARE
REQUIRED ARE RELATED TO THE
FIRE REVIEW URBAN FORESTRY
NATURAL RESOURCES WHICH IS
COMMONLY KNOWN AS THE LANDSCAPE
PLAN REVIEW PUBLIC WORKS THAT
FOCUSES ON THEIR SOLID WASTE
COLLECTION AND STORAGE SYSTEM
AND ENGINEERING AND
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING
REVIEW.
SO FOR THOSE REASONS STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING IT BE POSTPONED.
WE HAVE SUGGESTED IT COULD BE
POSTPONED UNTIL JUNE 17TH.
IT COULD BE POSTPONED TO ANY
DATE ACTUALLY BUT WE ARE
RECOMMENDING JUNE 17TH.
IT COULD ALSO BE POSTPONED
WITHOUT A DATE IN THAT CASE AND
THAT'S FINE BUT WE WOULD NEED
TO RE ADVERTISE AND REDO THE
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICES SO WE
WOULD NEED ABOUT TWENTY DAYS
NOTICE TWENTY DAYS TO DO THAT
RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING SO THIS WILL BE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES AND
WE WILL LET'S SEE WE'LL FIRST
HEAR FROM THOSE WHO ARE PRESENT
THEN FROM REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
TO SPEAK REMOTELY PRESS NINE ON
PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE ZOOM IN
FEATURES ZOOM PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
END OF THE MEETING A BE NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
IDENTIFY CALLERS THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME FOR ZOOM YOU WILL HEAR
AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANY ONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ON THIS SITE PLINT YEAH
OK GREAT.
OH I JUST HAD LIKE TWO CONCERNS
ONE I PROBABLY THE PRIMARY ONE
IS TO DO WITH THE CORRIDORS
ALONG THE PROJECT.
I WAS WONDERING IF THERE WERE
PLANS FOR MAKING THAT MORE
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY.
>> I THINK I MAY HAVE EVEN SEEN
SOME OF YOU GUYS WALKING AROUND
LIKE EISENHOWER AND I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU GUYS HAVE EVER
CROSSED IT BUT IT'S NOT LIKE
THE FUNNEST THING TO DO AND
EVEN JUST GOING ALONG STATE
STREET CAN BE ESPECIALLY
BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT OF THOSE
DRIVES.
IT CAN BE A LITTLE DANGEROUS.
THAT'S MY ONE OF MY CONCERNS.
AND ALSO EISENHOWER HAS THE YOU
HAVE THOSE LIKE FLASHING LIGHTS
TO CROSS CERTAIN INTERVALS.
I'VE ALWAYS KIND OF HAD THE
ISSUE BECAUSE I CROSS WAS DAILY
WHERE YOU HAVE LIKE A DOUBLE
THREAT SCENARIO WHERE MAYBE ONE
CAR STOPS FOR YOU.
THE GUY BEHIND HIM DOESN'T SEE
JUST POP GOES AROUND TAKES YOU
OUT SO THOSE ARE KIND OF MY MY
BIG CONCERNS.
OTHERWISE, YOU KNOW, I LIKE TO
MIX DEVELOPMENT.
I LIKE SEEING THIS DENSITY AND
AT FIRST I THOUGHT THIS WAS A
BUT I DIDN'T REALIZE YOU COULD
DO THIS WITH ONE.
AND THEN MY SECOND CONCERN IS
MORE SO TO DO WITH IN THIS CASE
IT'S SMALL BUT THERE ARE LIKE
WITH OTHER PROJECTS AS WELL
SOME OF THESE SMALLER
BUSINESSES AND I WORRY THAT A
LOT OF THEM HAVE BEEN DISPLACED
LIKE SUSHI TOWN AND JACK'S
HARDWARE AND IN THIS CASE
SHAWARMA SHOP.
SO I DO KIND OF WORRY ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT THE CITY HAS A
PLAN FOR KIND OF HELPING
MAINTAIN SOME OF OUR LOCAL
BUSINESSES WITHOUT DISPLACING
THEM WHENEVER WE HAVE NEW
DEVELOPMENTS BECAUSE I WANT THE
NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
BUT IF WE CAN HAVE SOME WAY TO
LIKE PREFERENTIALLY OR GIVE
THEM SOME KIND OF OPPORTUNITY
TO BE INTEGRATED INTO THE NEW
DEVELOPMENT, I DON'T KNOW HOW
PRACTICAL THAT IS BUT IT MAYBE
COULD BE SOMETHING FOR THE
COUNCIL TO CONSIDER.
>> COULD YOU PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS?
OH YEAH.
SORRY MY NAME IS ELIJAH SAVOY
AND ADDRESS I'M SORRY.
YEAH THAT'S WHERE I'M AT YES OK
YEAH OK I'M HIDDEN VALLEY CLUB
APARTMENTS SIX FIVE OH KIND
OF A
THANK CHARGE PLANNING
COMMISSION CAN COVER TWENTY
EIGHT HAVE CAUGHT A LOT TO LIKE
ABOUT THIS PROJECT.
I LIKE THE DENSITY TO MR.
HOFFMAN MENTIONED THAT IT'S
FULLY ELECTRIFIED.
I'M NOT SURE THAT'S CORRECT.
THE NARRATIVE SAID THAT THE
CONDOS WOULD USE GAS NOT SURE
FROM WHETHER THAT'S GAS HE GAS
APPLIANCES OR BOTH I MY
QUESTION WOULD BE WHY NOT GO
FULLY ELECTRIFIED THROUGH THE
WHOLE PROJECT?
BUT I'M ONLY HERE TO TALK ABOUT
PARKING SO YEAH.
TWENTY SIX HUNDRED PARKING
SPACES MOSTLY IN THE THREE
PARKING DECKS THEY'LL SERVE ONE
THOUSAND FORTY THREE HOUSING
UNITS ROUGHLY FIFTEEN RESIDENTS
TOLD TO START WITH THIS PROJECT
IT IS DESIGNED HOW MANY MORE
CARS THAN PEOPLE THROUGH THE
PARKING HAS TO SERVE THE TWO
EXISTING OFFICE BUILDINGS A
RESTAURANT 150 ROOM HOTEL
PFM
GROUP CONSULTING MODEL PARKING
DEMAND FOR CRAWFORD HOYING BUT
I QUESTION THE RESULTS FOR YOU
OFFICERS ALONE BUT QUICK THEY
DEMANDED ONE THOUSAND THREE
HUNDRED FORTY FOUR SPACES THIS
MORNING I WALKED THE SITE AT
NINE A.M. BY MY COUNT THERE
WERE FEWER THAN FIVE HUNDRED
VEHICLES TOTAL IN ALL THE
SURFACE LOTS AND THE PARKING
STRUCTURE THE PARKING DECK
THAT'S THERE NOW WHICH IS
MOSTLY EMPTY HERE ALSO AT THE
ROUGHLY FIFTEEN HUNDRED SPACES
NOW IT'S REALLY OVER PARKED
ALREADY.
>> SO WHEN MR. HAMMOND TALKS
ABOUT WHILE WE'RE REALLY ONLY
ADDING ELEVEN HUNDRED SPACES TO
THE EXISTING FIFTEEN HUNDRED
SPACES THAT'S TRUE BUT THE
FIFTEEN HUNDRED SPACES IS LIKE
I SAID MOSTLY UNUSED NOW ANYWAY
SO WE'RE REALLY PUTTING IN I
THINK A LOT OF UNNECESSARY
PARKING AGAIN END OF ONE ONE
MORNING BUT I THINK THAT PFM
SHOULD GO FROM USING A STANDARD
MODEL WHICH THEY'RE DOING NOW
TO USING EXPERIENCE BASED MODEL
AND ACTUALLY LOOKING AT WHAT
PARKING IS BEING USED ON THAT
SITE BEFORE MAKING A PROJECTION
AND WHAT'S GOING TO BE USED IN
THE FUTURE.
AND OF COURSE AS MR. HAMMOND
SAID, A LOT OF THE PARKING
SHARED.
SO BOTTOM LINE THE SITE PLAN IS
WAY TOO MUCH PARKING ESPECIALLY
FOR TAXI ONE NOW THE EXISTING
PARKING STRUCTURE I UNDERSTAND
BASED ON THE PHASING WILL
REMAIN UNTIL TWENTY TWENTY NINE
OR SO WHEN THIRD PHASE WILL BE
CONSTRUCTED.
THEN IT'LL BE DEMOLISHED AND
WILL BE REPLACED BY THE THIRD
PARKING STRUCTURE WHICH IS KEY
TO IN YOUR DIAGRAM 800 SPACES.
SO WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO SEE IS
IN THIS I PLAN C TO GET MORE
TIME JUST FINISHED.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO SEE TWO
REMOVED GREEN SPACE PUT IN
THERE AT IF NECESSARY THE
PARTITION CAN COME BACK IN
TWENTY TWENTY NINE IF AT THAT
TIME PARKING IS DEEMED
NECESSARY WITH A PLAN FOR A
PARKING STRUCTURE AT THAT SITE
I DON'T THINK IT'S NEEDED NOW.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR.
HI MY NAME IS
CATHY JAMOT TWO NINE ZERO SEVEN
WHITEAKER.
I WORK AT ONE OF THE OFFICE
BUILDINGS MENTIONED IN THIS
PLAN AND I ALSO LIVE IN A
RESIDENTIAL AREA NEAR THIS
SITE.
I WANT TO VOICE MY SUPPORT FOR
THIS PLAN.
I REALLY COMMEND THE DESIRE TO
TRANSFORM AN UNDERUTILIZED
SPACE AND CREATE MORE POINTS
OF ATTRACTION NEARBY.
I WAS REALLY GUTTED WHEN THE
GEORGE FOR EXAMPLE WAS NOT ABLE
TO GET ANY OF THE RETAIL SPACES
CREATED BECAUSE IT'S ALWAYS
GREAT TO HAVE MORE BUSINESS
AROUND WHERE I LIVE THAT IS
WALKABLE CURRENTLY MY HOME IS
CONSIDERED VIABLE BUT NOT
WALKABLE DUE TO IT BEING A LONG
WAY TO GET TO MANY PLACES RIGHT
NOW AT THE CURRENT SITE I SEE
IT EVERY DAY THERE'S A LOT
OF PARKING SPOTS THAT ARE
UNUSED OTHER PLACES AS
MENTIONED THIS AREA IS VERY
INDUSTRIAL.
IT'S HARD TO WALK AROUND SO I'M
HOPING THAT THE HIGH DENSITY
WILL HELP WITH THAT.
IT CAN BE VERY SCARY AS
PEDESTRIAN TO TO WALK AROUND
IN.
A LOT OF PEOPLE IN OUR OFFICE
BUILDING WILL DRIVE YOUR CAR
JUST TO GET ACROSS STATE STREET
TO GO TO THE BUSINESSES OVER
THERE.
SO I'M HAPPY TO SEE THAT THERE
WILL BE THERE POTENTIALLY WILL
BE MORE BUSINESS AROUND AND A
GREATER AND NICER AREA TO WALK
AROUND.
I ALSO SHARE THE CONCERN ABOUT
LOCAL BUSINESSES TO MAKE SURE
THAT LOCAL BUSINESSES ARE ABLE
TO COME AND ALSO BE RETAINED AS
WELL.
I NOTICED THAT A LOT OF THE
BUSINESSES ARE IN THE CENTRAL
AREA WHICH IS NOT VISIBLE FROM
THE STREET FRONT.
A LOT OF BUSINESSES WILL WANT
STREET FRONT AND SIMILAR TO THE
GEORGE WHERE THEY SAID THAT
THEIR BUSINESSES WERE SET TO A
PLACE OF BUSINESS, IT WOULD BE
NICE IF IT'S CONSIDERED TO HAVE
THE BUSINESSES HAVE MORE
ADVERTISING SPACE STREET FRONT
SO THAT WE CAN CONTINUE
BRINGING OR WE CAN BRING MORE
BUSINESS INTO THE ACTUAL SITE
AND THAT IS VISIBLE BECAUSE
YES, SIMILARLY I THINK LOCAL
BUSINESSES CAN DRIVE THE
PERSONALITY OF THIS TOWN AND
CONTRIBUTE TO ITS VITALITY AS
WELL AS HAVING HIGHER DENSITY
AND MORE PEOPLE LIVING THERE
AND ALSO JUST BECAUSE SOMEONE
ELSE SAID IT.
BUT TUESDAY IS THE HIGHEST
COUNTY.
SO IF YOU WERE TO COUNT FOR OUR
OFFICE, WHICH IS ONE OF THE
ONES OVER THERE, UM, THE
PARKING AMOUNT ON A TUESDAY
WHAT WHAT WAS SEEN TODAY WAS
PROBABLY THE HIGHEST FOR THE
WEEK.
THANK YOU
.
>> ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO SPEAK?
THAT'S IN THE CHAMBER SO SOON?
>> DO WE HAVE ANY ONLINE
PARTICIPANTS?
WE DO.
LISA JAVINS, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> THERE'S JAVINS, THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES
BEFORE YOU CALL THE NEXT
PERSON.
IT'S SEVEN O'CLOCK SO PEOPLE
DIDN'T KNOW WE STARTED AT FIVE
THIRTY.
THEY MAY BE THINKING WE'RE
STARTING WITH PUBLIC COMMENT
WHICH WE ARE NOT.
WE ARE DISCUSSING THE S SITE
PLAN DURING ITS PUBLIC HEARING
RIGHT NOW.
SO IF YOU DO WISH TO SPEAK
ABOUT THAT YOU CAN RAISE YOUR
HAND ON ZOOM IN MR. LEINERT
WILL RECOGNIZE YOU AND PERMIT
YOU TO SPEAK FOR THREE MINUTES
.
IS EVANS YOU HAVE A FEW MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
?
>> SORRY I'M NOT ABLE TO HEAR
YOU.
LET ME TRY ANOTHER CALLER AND I
WILL COME BACK TO YOU ERIC ONCE
YOU HAVE A FEW MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
IMPORTANT TO PROTECT THE CITY'S
FINANCES AND THE FUTURE BECAUSE
THERE IS A LITTLE BIT OF RISK
INVOLVED.
>> SO IF THAT COULD THAT
CERTAINLY SOUNDS LIKE IT MEANS
PHASING OF WHATEVER PARKING
STRUCTURES WE WILL BE
DEVELOPING.
BUT ALSO I WOULD VERY MUCH URGE
AND EMBRACE MY OWN SUPPORT
OF THE PROJECT ON WHETHER OR
NOT THERE IS SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
DISTRICTS TO HELP FINANCE
THINGS SHOULD THE PROJECT NOT
GO AS WE ALL HOPE IT WILL.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
COLOR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER TWO
FIVE THREE FOUR IN THREE
MINUTES THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
HELLO AGAIN THIS IS TOM
STALBERG ONE TWO ZERO TWO
TRAILER STREET.
I THINK THIS IS A GOOD LOCATION
FOR THIS TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT.
>> I'D LIKE YOU TO COMPARE IT
TO ANOTHER DEVELOPMENT SEVERAL
YEARS AGO THAT WAS TOUTED AS
THE LARGEST PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT
SINCE BRIARWOOD WAS MORNING
MORNINGSIDE LOWERTOWN
DEVELOPMENT NOW CALLED DENHA ON
BROADWAY.
I WANT TO REMIND PEOPLE WHAT
HAPPENED THERE.
THE DEVELOPER CAME TO MARKET AT
DOUBLE THE RENTS YOU SAID WHICH
I AM NOT ACCUSING THE DEVELOPER
OF ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
>> BUT WHEN WE EVALUATE PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION IN OUR FINANCES
IN ORDER TO MAKE A PROJECT
QUOTE UNQUOTE PENCIL OUT, LET'S
REMEMBER THAT DEVELOPER SAID HE
COULDN'T PROVIDE WHAT A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR THE
OTHER SITE CALLED FOR BECAUSE
WE COULD MAKE IT PENCIL OUT AND
CAME TO MARKET AT DOUBLE THE
RENTS WE SUBSIDIZED TO A GREAT
DEAL AT THAT LOCATION MAYBE
NINE MILLION DOLLARS IN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR NINETY
THREE UNITS ON SITE IN AN
INAPPROPRIATE MANNER FOR A
DEVELOPER THAT CAME TO MARKET
DOUBLE THE RENT HE SAID HE
WOULD GO WITH THE GREAT PROJECT
TO EVALUATE WHEN IT COMES TIME
FOR US TO PAY OR TO TAKE RISKS
FOR IT I AM NOT IN FAVOR OF US
DOING THAT JUST SO A DEVELOPER
CAN PENCIL OUT.
THANK YOU
.
>> NO OTHER CALLERS CHAIR WHICH
THANK YOU MR. LEONARD.
>> SO WITH THAT I WILL READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION MOVES
TO POSTPONE TO THE COMMISSION'S
JUNE 17TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
REGULAR MEETING FOR ADDITIONAL
TIME TO COMPLETE STAFF REVIEWS
AND FOR THE APPLICANT TO
ADDRESS UNRESOLVED ISSUES MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER WE
ARE IN DISCUSSION WHO WOULD
LIKE TO KICK US OFF
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
>> I LOVE THIS PROJECT YOU CALL
THIS AREA GREAT
AND I TOTALLY
AGREE.
I THINK THIS IS WHERE WE SHOULD
BE BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
LIKE THIS SHOULDN'T BE ON
SOCIAL MEDIA.
BUT I SAW A THREAD ON REDDIT
ABOUT THIS PROJECT AND IT
COMPARED THE PLAN TO THE DOMAIN
IN AUSTIN.
IT WAS A BAD THING.
HE CALLED IT SOULLESS.
THE DOMAIN.
I HAVEN'T LIVED IN AUSTIN FOR
OVER TEN YEARS NOW TO ME WITH
THE DOMAIN OF SOULLESS NOW I
MEAN THIS WORKS BEING BUILT AND
OPENED AND IF THIS IS ANYTHING
LIKE THAT IT'S GOING TO BE
INCREDIBLY POPULAR.
I HAVE A TON OF ENERGY AND SORT
OF WHAT THE DOMAIN BRANDED
ITSELF AS A DOWNTOWN CONTINUED
BUT I FIRST MOVED BACK HERE SO
SIMON DEVELOPED THE DOMAIN AND
I KEPT SAYING LIKE THIS IS THE
BUYER WHICH SHOULD BE DOING A
FELLOW PRIVATE PROPERTY BUT I'M
GLAD YOU'RE DOING IT AND I'M
GLAD YOU'RE DOING IT WHERE
YOU'RE DOING IT AND HOPEFULLY
THIS WILL INSPIRE BRIAN TO DO
MORE OF WHAT THEY'RE STARTING
TO DO.
I LOVE THAT YOU'RE INTEGRATING
EXISTING BUILDINGS, NOT JUST
SCRAPING THE SITE.
I LOVE THE ATTENTION TO THE
SPACE BETWEEN BUILDINGS.
>> I HAVE JUST A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS I THINK AT THIS
POINT YOU ANSWERED MY QUESTION
ABOUT THE AFFORDABLE BUILDING
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE HOUSING
COMMISSION.
THAT'S GREAT OPPORTUNITY 200
UNITS.
THAT'S AMAZING PARKING SO WE'VE
HEARD TONIGHT AND OVER THE PAST
SEVERAL WEEKS IN THE CONTEXT A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BECAUSE WE
ELIMINATED PARKING MINIMUMS.
DEVELOPERS ARE JUST NOT GOING
TO DO ANY PARKING.
THERE'S GOING TO BE ALL KINDS
OF PARKING PROBLEMS.
>> BUT CLEARLY YOU'RE LOOKING
AT DOING A MAJOR PROJECT
WITHOUT BENEFIT OF PARKING
MINIMUMS AND YOU'RE STILL DOING
PARKING.
SO CAN YOU TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT HOW YOU CAME UP WITH THE
RIGHT BALANCE AND ALSO IS IT
UNBUNDLED FROM THE RENTAL UNITS
OR THE CONDOS OR HOW ARE YOU
ALLOCATING IT TO OR IS IT JUST
KIND OF LIKE A FIRST COME FIRST
SERVE SITUATION FOR PEOPLE THAT
LIVE THERE?
>> YEAH, SORRY YOU GOT TO COACH
ME THROUGH THIS.
>> I'M A LITTLE I WANTED TO
ANSWER THEIR QUESTIONS TO ASK
SOME GOOD QUESTIONS BUT I WROTE
NOTES WILL PROBABLY GOING TO
THOSE QUESTIONS THE PARKING
STRUCTURES JUST RUNNING DOWN
ROUGHLY TWENTY SIX HUNDRED IT
STARTS WITH WE HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO THE OFFICE
BUILDINGS.
WE HAVE TO PROVIDE THE NUMBERS
THAT ARE BASICALLY CURRENTLY
THERE BY THE LEASES.
>> WE HAVE TO PROVIDE THOSE
NUMBERS.
>> YES, THERE ARE NOT THE LOTS
ARE NOT FULL YET.
>> THERE'S STILL A LOT
OF BUSINESSES DOING WORK FROM
HOME BUT THOSE BUILDINGS THAT
SEVENTY NINE IS 100 PERCENT
OCCUPIED SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN
NINETY FIVE PERCENT OCCUPIED.
>> THEREFORE THEY'RE COMMITTED
THEY'RE COMMITTED FOR THE LONG
TERM.
SO WE STILL HAVE THAT
OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE THOSE
SPACES.
BUT IF WE PROVIDED THE PARKING
FOR THE OFFICE BUILDINGS ON TOP
OF SAY ONE SPOT PER UNIT YOU'RE
ALREADY HITTING THE NUMBER BUT
WE STILL HAVE AND WE'RE
ACTUALLY THINKING IT'S PROBABLY
TO BE CLOSER TO A HUNDRED
THOUSAND FEET OF RETAIL AND
EVEN JUST DOING THREE SPOTS PER
THOUSAND.
RIGHT.
SO NOW YOU'RE AT ROUGHLY
ANOTHER THREE HUNDRED THE HOTEL
ONE SPOT PER KEY.
>> OK, SO WHEN YOU ADD IT ALL
UP WE'RE WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
MINIMAL PARKING.
WE'RE TRYING TO ENCOURAGE
WALKABILITY BUT WE CAN'T NOT
HAVE PARKING EITHER.
NO ONE IS GOING TO WANT TO LIVE
SOMEWHERE WHERE THERE'S
LITERALLY NOWHERE TO PARK AT
ALL BECAUSE THIS IS STILL
MICHIGAN AND WE STILL HAVE TO
GET OUR GROCERIES AND IT WAS
JUST REALITY AND AND THEN
OF COURSE WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE
WE TAKE CARE OF THE OFFICE
BUILDINGS, HAVE TO MAKE IT
CONVENIENT ENOUGH FOR THE
BUSINESSES THAT ARE TO COME,
WHETHER THEY'RE OUT OF TOWN,
BUSINESSES OR LOCAL.
THEY'RE GOING TO RELY ON PEOPLE
FROM OUTSIDE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD TO WE WANT TO MAKE
A CONVENIENT FOR THOSE PEOPLE.
I'M THINKING OF PEOPLE THAT
LIVE IN GEORGETOWN, FOR EXAMPLE
,EASILY WALKABLE, LIKABLE BUT
NOT EVERYONE AND I COME FROM
THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT COME FROM
THE SELINE CHELSI SOUTH OF TOWN
THE FREEWAYS RIGHT THERE.
SO IT'S REALLY CONVENIENT
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO PARK.
SO THAT'S THE MATH BEHIND IT.
AND THEN JUST ONE MORE QUESTION
RIGHT NOW ABOUT OPEN SPACE PARK
SPACE ON SITE.
SO YOU'RE DOING A PARKLAND
CONTRIBUTION BUT CAN YOU TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT ANY SORT
OF PRIVATE IS THERE SOME
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE?
I SAW SOME IN FRONT OF BUILDING
B THREE.
DID SOMETHING HAPPEN COURTYARDS
IN BETWEEN THE BUILDING SO THAT
SPACE RIGHT IN FRONT OF B THREE
IT'S IT'S APPROXIMATELY ONE
POINT SEVEN ACRES THAT'S A
PUBLIC PARK, RIGHT?
YEAH.
I MEAN IT'S THAT'S FOR ANYONE
GREAT.
AND THEN OF COURSE IT OPENS UP
TO THE LARGER AREA WHICH AS
WE'VE MENTIONED CAN BE CLOSED
DOWN FOR LARGER EVENTS BUT BUT
THAT PARK IS A PERMANENT PARK
FOR ANYONE.
>> IT DOESN'T LOOK THAT BIG ON
THE MAP.
SO I ONE THAT'S GREAT.
>> I MEAN IT'S IT'S HARD TO
TELL SCALE FROM YEAH.
IT'S A IT'S A BIG PROJECT.
>> YEAH IT IS.
I'M VERY EXCITED ABOUT IT SEVEN
YEARS YOU SAID IN THE MAKING TO
GET TO HERE.
YEAH WELL ACTUALLY MORE LIKE
PROBABLY EIGHT SINCE WE FIRST
STARTED THINKING ABOUT IT.
>> YEAH.
>> CONGRATULATIONS.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
>> EXCUSE ME COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH EITHER ONE IS FINE SO I
WANTED TO MAKE A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS ACTUALLY DON'T I
DON'T THINK I HAVE A QUESTION
FROM THE PRESENTATION BUT I
WANTED TO JUST UNDERSCORE A
COUPLE OF POINTS THAT I'M NOT
SURE FULLY CAME THROUGH FROM
THE PRESENTATION BECAUSE IT WAS
RUSHED.
BUT I DID WANT TO NOTE THAT
NORMALLY AS WE KNOW ON THIS
BODY WE HAVE TO CHOOSE BETWEEN
A PAYMENT IN LIEU AND PROVISION
OF ACTUAL UNITS WHEN WE ARE
DEALING WITH AN AFFORDABLE
COMPONENT OF A PROJECT.
AND THIS PROJECT IS NOT ONLY
PROVIDING MORE AFFORDABLE UNITS
THAN IT IS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE
FOR A BROWNFIELD PROJECT WHICH
THERE IS A REQUIREMENT SO IT IS
IT IS PROVIDING TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT MORE THAN IT NEEDS TO
SET THE RIGHT NUMBER.
YOU CAN CORRECT ME FROM THE
FLOOR HUNDRED MARQUETRY AND
THEN ANOTHER TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT TO GET TO A THOUSAND
TWO HUNDRED UNITS.
YES SO DEPENDING ON HOW LOOK AT
THE RATIOS SOME WOULD CALL IT
TWENTY PERCENT SOMEONE CALL
TWENTY FIVE PERCENT SO THAT IS
MORE THAN IS REQUIRED IN THE
BROWNFIELD TYPE AGREEMENT AND
BUT THE THING TO KNOW IS THAT
THE DEVELOPER PROPOSES TO BUILD
THOSE UNITS WHICH MEANS THAT
THEY WILL CARRY THE
CONSTRUCTION LOAN AND UNTIL THE
CITY PURCHASES THESE UNITS
WHICH WILL BE BONDED AND DONE
THROUGH THE MILLAGE MONEY THAT
THE LOAN FOR THE ACTUAL I MEAN
THAT OTHER LOAN WILL BE HELD BY
THE MORTGAGE LOAN WILL BE HELD
BY THE DEVELOPER THAT WON'T BE
LONG BUT STILL AND ROUGHLY THAT
CONTRIBUTION COMES IN AT AROUND
10 MILLION I THINK IS WHAT I'VE
HEARD AND YES, WE'RE A LITTLE
BIT MORE THAN THAT.
OK, WE CAN YOU CAN I'D LOVE TO
HEAR EXACTLY I KNOW THIS
PROJECT IS A MOVING TARGET AND
SO THE NUMBERS THAT I HAVE HAD
IN PREVIOUS CONVERSATIONS BUT I
FEEL LIKE I'M IN THE WEEDS HERE
BUT FOR THOSE OF YOU HERE AT
THE TABLE IT IS A DOUBLE BONUS.
WE ARE GETTING THE EQUIVALENT
OF A PAYMENT IN LIEU THESE THAT
THE CONSTRUCTION OF THESE UNITS
IS BEING FINANCED AT A LOWER
RATE THAN THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION COULD FINANCE THEM
BECAUSE IT'S PART OF THE ENTIRE
PROJECT AND THAT WHOLE THE
WHOLE FINANCING PERIOD IS TAKEN
CARE OF BY THE DEVELOPER.
SO THAT IS PRETTY AMAZING THAT
WE ARE GETTING BOTH UNITS ON
SITE AND A PAYMENT WHICH WHILE
IT IS NOT GOING INTO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND IN THE
SAME WAY THAT WE USUALLY THINK
OF THAT PAYMENT IN YOU, IT IS
AN EXTRA PAYMENT ON TOP OF THE
PROVISION OF UNITS.
>> AND SO THIS IS THIS IS
SOMETHING AND THIS IS ALSO MORE
UNITS THEN WE HAVE MORE UNITS
AT ONCE THAN WE HAVE DONE SO
FAR RIGHT.
WE ARE RIGHT NOW ACHIEVING 63
UNITS WITH THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN KOREATOWN IN DUNBAR.
YES.
DUNBAR TOWER.
>> OH I'M SORRY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR REMINDING.
WE ARE NOW ACHIEVING SIXTY
THREE UNITS IN KOREATOWN AND WE
ARE LOOKING FORWARD.
>> I JUST HEARD TO THREE
HUNDRED UNITS NEXT TO BLAKE
TRANSIT BUT THOSE ARE A WAYS
OFF THAT PROJECT HAD BEEN ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY TO ONE
HUNDRED TO ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY AFFORDABLE PAIRED WITH
MARKET IT'S GOING TO BE ALL
AFFORDABLE NOW.
>> THREE HUNDRED BUT YOU'RE
GOING TO BEAT HIM SO YOU'RE
STARTING A TREND WHERE WE'RE
LEARNING TO PRODUCE THESE IN
BULK.
JENNIFER HALL CAME TO OUR
COFFEE OUR LAST NIGHT AND
EXPLAINED THAT SO THIS IS AN
INCREDIBLE BOOST FOR OUR
CHIPPING AWAY AT THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING GOALS THAT WE HAVE AND
IT'S A MODEL FOR HOW TO DO A
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP TO
PRODUCE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
AND SO FOR ME THIS IS NOT JUST
THE REALIZATION OF OUR FIRST
TAKE ONE PROJECT WHICH WE'VE
ALL BEEN WAITING FOR BUT IT IS
A NEW MODEL FOR ACHIEVING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THAT
MAKES IT VERY EXCITING TO ME.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE.
SO JUST A COUPLE OF THOUGHTS I
WANT TO CONTINUE ON THAT
OF THIS I HAD ASSUMED WHEN IT
SAID AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
THERE WAS NO NUMBER NEXT TO IT
THAT IT WAS GOING TO BE THE
MINIMUM POSSIBLE AND SO 60
PERCENT WAS SOMETHING I WAS
REALLY HAPPY
TO SEE.
>> SO I THINK THIS IS
LEGITIMATE, AFFORDABLE HOUSING
THAT WE NEED AND I APPRECIATE
THAT A COUPLE OTHER THINGS SO
IF YOU SAY FULLY ELECTRIC, I IT
BECAUSE WE TRUST MR. GARBER TO
COME UP AND SAY, YOU KNOW, IT'S
ONLY FULLY ELECTRIC ON THIS ONE
BUILDING IN THIS ONE CONDITION
AND SO YOU KNOW, YOU NEED TO DO
WHAT YOU NEED TO DO BUT IT IS
DEFINITELY YOU KNOW, I GET
HAPPY WHEN SOMEBODY SAYS FULLY
ELECTRIC AND THEN IT'S REALLY
DISAPPOINTING WHEN IT'S LIKE
FULLY ELECTRIC EXCEPT FOR WE'VE
HAD SITUATIONS EXCEPT FOR GAS
AND YOU KNOW, EXCEPT FOR
HEATING AND COOKING.
>> WELL, OK, YOU BUT BUT BE
HONEST ABOUT THE FULLY ELECTRIC
BECAUSE IT DOES CHANGE THE
EQUATION AND YOU KNOW, FULLY
ELECTRIC AND MR. GARBER COMES
UP AND SAYS YES, ABSOLUTELY IT
IS FULLY ELECTRIC.
>> THAT'S AWESOME.
IT MAY NOT BE POSSIBLE BUT BUT
THE THE MORE REALISTIC YOU ARE
ABOUT THAT THE BETTER THE THE
HAPPIER I AM PERSONALLY
SOMEBODY MENTIONED THE ABILITY
TO CROSS STATE AND EISENHOWER.
I KNOW THAT'S NOT REALLY IN
YOUR THAT THAT'S A DISCUSSION
WITH THE CITY AND THE PROJECT
AND BUT THE MORE PEDESTRIAN
CONNECTIONS WE CAN DO THE
BETTER AND I KNOW THAT YOU
WOULD WANT THAT ALSO I HAVE A
LITTLE BIT OF EXPERIENCE ON
THIS SITE IN THAT MY HUSBAND'S
OFFICE WELL OFFICE IS THERE AND
HE ONLY GOES MAYBE ONCE EVERY
SIX WEEKS AND I ALWAYS GET TO
TEXT FROM HIM AND ONE IS HE
RIDES HIS BIKE AND THERE IS NO
BIKE PARKING AND HE ALWAYS
SENDS ME AROUND, YOU KNOW,
TWENTY MINUTES AFTER HE'S
SUPPOSED TO BE THERE OF LIKE
THERE'S NO PLACE TO PARK MY
BIKE.
>> I HAD TO TAKE IT I
>> I'M WANDERING AROUND WITH
OTHER PEOPLE WITH THEIR BIKES.
THERE'S NOTHING YOU SO LIKE
RIGHT NOW THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS ARE REALLY BAD ON
THAT.
>> SO IF YOU ARE GOING TO DO A
PEDESTRIAN BIKE PARKING AND
WANT THAT RIGHT NOW YOU'RE NOT
IT'S NOT GOOD.
>> THE OTHER THING HE SENDS ME
IS A PICTURE FROM ABOVE OF THE
SEA OF EMPTY PARKING AND SO I
ANYTHING THAT WE CAN DO TO NOT
DO THE PARKING IS GREAT.
>> BUT I UNDERSTAND THAT MARKET
FORCES ARE MARKET FORCES AND
CARS ARE CARS AND BUT ANYTHING
YOU COULD DO TO PREVENT MORE ON
PARKED PARKING WOULD BE GREAT
AND I ASSUME THAT IT'S
EXPENSIVE AND YOU WOULD LIKE TO
DO THAT TOO.
>> SO I THINK THAT IS I THINK
OTHER THINGS THAT PEOPLE
MENTIONED REALLY GOOD ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, VARIOUS
SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS AND
BRINGING BUSINESS INTO THE
INTERNAL RETAIL AND THAT'S
SOMETHING I'M SURE YOU'VE
THOUGHT A LOT ABOUT BUT THAT
I'M ALSO ON THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
>> SO THINGS THAT GO WITHIN THE
EXISTING SIGNORINA INSYS
BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT TO SEE
YOU ALL THE TIME SAYING WELL
WHAT ABOUT 200 FEET HERE AND A
HUNDRED FEET HERE AND EXTRA
SIGNAGE HERE?
>> SO JUST SOMETHING TO THINK
ABOUT
COMMISSIONER MILLS, I
WANT TO ACTUALLY ASK JUST TO
MAKE SURE THAT I UNDERSTAND
ABOUT THE ELECTRIFICATION.
SO WHAT IS ALL ELECTRIC AND
WHAT IS NOT ALL ELECTRIC SO IT
MOISTURE WHETHER IT BE IF I
WASN'T CLEAR EARLIER AND I
APPRECIATE CAN POINT THINGS OUT
WHAT I SAID IN THE BEGINNING
AND I WASN'T TRYING TO BE
UNCLEAR THE THOUSAND UNITS
OF MULTIFAMILY ARE ALL ELECTRIC
GROUND FLOOR RETAIL.
I GO BACK AND FORTH WITH MESI
ON THIS FREQUENTLY SHE WANTS TO
CONVINCE US THAT WE'LL BRING IN
MICHELIN STARRED RESTAURANTS
AND I BELIEVE HER I SAID BRING
SOMEBODY IN THAT WILL THAT WILL
LEASE GROUND FLOOR RESTAURANTS
FACE WITH WITH ELECTRICITY ONLY
AND IT'S HARD IF YOU ASK MOST
RESTAURANTS AROUND HERE THEY'RE
GOING TO SAY THAT GAS THE
CONDOS, THE THIRTY CONDOS I
UNDERSTAND IT FOR THAT MARKET
IS IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO SELL
CONDOS LIKE THAT WITHOUT GAS
ALSO.
SO WE TALK ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION.
WE ARE TALKING A THOUSAND UNITS
WHICH IS THE VAST MAJORITY
OF THE DEVELOPMENT.
WE ARE NOT TALKING ALL THE
RESTAURANTS GRANTED TO SOME
RETAILERS THAT DON'T REQUIRE IT
AND THEY'LL BE ALSO ELECTRIFIED
BUT ALSO GAS GENERATORS THAT
ARE THE MOST RELIABLE RIGHT NOW
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT CAN WE USE
BATTERY BACKUPS FOR THE POWER
SYSTEMS?
THERE'S JUST IT'S JUST NOT THE
SAME AS USING THE GAS FIRED
GENERATOR IS THERE GOING TO BE
RUNNING ALL THE TIME?
>> NO.
I MEAN IT'S ONLY WHEN THERE'S A
POWER FAILURE I DON'T GIVE IN
TO THAT GOAL.
>> BUT YEAH, WE'RE WE ARE
SINCERE.
WE SAY ONE THOUSAND IS THE
AFFORDABLE PEACE AND THE AND
THE MARKET RAPES ALL ELECTRIC
AND THE COMMERCIAL SPACE OR THE
RETAIL SPACE AND THE CONDOS IS
THE HEATING ELECTRIC OR IS THE
HEATING ALSO GAS THE THE LIKE
YOU KNOW THIS CONDITION TO
SPACE I UNDERSTAND FOR THE
APPLIANCES.
RIGHT.
BUT I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT
YOU'RE DOING ON HD.
>> THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
ANDY ANDRE WITH OXFORD
COMPANIES.
WHAT WE'VE WHAT WE'VE DONE IS
WE'VE ELECTRIFIED EVERYTHING
THAT WE CAN SO FROM ON FROM THE
HEATING AND COOLING PERSPECTIVE
WE'VE GONE WITH ELECTRIC.
THE GAS IS REALLY THERE FOR
COOKING AND THOSE HAPPY USES AS
JEFF AND MENTIONED THE THE
RELIABILITY OF GAS WHEN IT
COMES TO EMERGENCY GENERATORS
THAT'S LIFE SAFETY AND SO WE WE
KNOW THAT'S A PROVEN TECHNOLOGY
AND THE INFREQUENCY IN WHICH WE
ANTICIPATE IT HAPPENING IS NOT
IT'S NOT EVEN A USE UNTIL IT
HAPPENS.
SO WE WHILE WE DISCLOSE THAT WE
HAVE ALL THAT IT'S REALLY NOT A
COMPONENT TO IT.
>> SO THE HEATING AND COOLING
IS IS ELECTRIC THROUGH.
OK, SO SOMEDAY WHEN WE DO GET
THE MICHELIN STARS LIKE IF IT'S
JUST FOR COOKING RIGHT.
THAT'S EASY ENOUGH TO BE DONE
WITH AND AND HAVE A BETTER
BACKUP.
I UNDERSTAND THE FIRE SO THOSE
THE TWO THOSE ARE THE TWO USES
JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT I'M
CLEAR ON THAT.
YEAH.
AND WE'VE WE'VE BEEN WORKING
PRETTY DILIGENTLY TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE HAVE THE POWER CAPACITY
IN ORDER TO SUPPORT THE
DEVELOPMENT SO IT'S BEEN A YEAR
PLUS WORKING WITH THE UTILITY
COMPANY IN ORDER TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE HAVE THAT.
AND SO IT'S WELL WHILE
EVERYBODY I'M SURE IS AWARE
OF THE PUSH AND PULL SOMETIMES
OF OF DOING THAT, WE FEEL VERY
COMFORTABLE WHERE WE'RE AT AND
WE'RE ALSO WHEN YOU LOOK AT OUR
PLAN, IT IS A MASTER PLAN AND
SO WE ARE MASTER PLANNING THE
UTILITIES AS A COMPONENT TO IT
AS WELL AND WE UNDERSTAND THE
ELECTRICAL IS IS IS A FEATURE
THAT REALLY IS AN OPTIONAL AND
SO WE HAVE BEEN PLANNING THAT
AS PART OF THE DEVELOPMENT ALL
THE WAY THROUGH.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
SIMILARLY I WANT TO FOLLOW UP A
LITTLE BIT ON THE STREET
CROSSING AND JUST WHAT IS
PLANNED IF ANYTHING BE BEYOND
THE KIND OF CONFINES OF THAT
INTERSECTION LIKE PARTICULARLY
I'M THINKING ABOUT THE SUPER
BUS STATION WHICH IS AWESOME
THAT IT'S RIGHT THERE AND I'M
THINKING COMING BACK FROM TOWN
RIGHT LIKE IT IT'S A I DON'T
KNOW HOW CLOSE THE STOP IS ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF ST. STREET
FOR EXAMPLE AND LIKE WHERE
FOLKS ARE GOING TO CROSS.
>> YEAH, I LET ME LET ME SPEAK
TO THAT.
I THINK I THINK WE'RE FORTUNATE
IF YOU LOOK AT THE LOCATION
WHERE WE ARE, WE HAVE GREAT
ACCESS TO ALREADY EXISTING
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AND AGAIN
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT WE
STARTED PROBABLY GOING BACK
ABOUT A YEAR MAYBE JUST MORE
THAN A YEAR AGO ENGAGING THE
RIDE TO AS TO HERE'S OUR PLAN
AS INVOLVED.
WE KEEP THEM WE KEEP THEM
INFORMED DURING THE PROCESS WE
HAVE IDENTIFIED AS PART OF THE
PLAN AND WE SAW IT IN THE
PRESENTATION.
WE ARE LOOKING TO ENHANCE THE
CURRENT STOPS THAT ARE THERE.
IF YOU GO OUT AND YOU LOOK IT'S
JUST THE POST HERE IT IS YOU
KNOW IT'S NOT VERY ATTRACTIVE
NOT TO BE SELFISH.
IT'S NICE TO HAVE SOMETHING
LOOK REALLY GOOD RIGHT IN FRONT
OF ALL THESE NEW BUILDINGS IN
THIS NEW DEVELOPMENT AND SO WE
IS PART OF THIS PLAN.
DUILIO HAD MENTIONED RECENT
RESOLUTION FROM CITY COUNCIL
EXPAND UPON NOT JUST THE
PARKING STRUCTURES BUT TO ALSO
TO INSTRUCT ADMINISTRATION TO
WORK WITH THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
ON SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AND
ALSO TRANSPORTATION.
AND SO NOW WE HAVE THAT
OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND.
I THINK A LITTLE BIT MORE SO WE
TALK ABOUT THE SUPER STOPS,
WHAT IS THAT THAT'S REALLY
CREATING AN ENHANCED LOCATION
THAT GOES ALONG WITH THE PLANT
THAT THEY HAVE AND SO THERE IS
A SUPER STOP AROUND AS PLANNED
BY TRICKILY TO RIGHT THROUGH
STATE STREET AND SO WE'LL WORK
WITH THEM LOOKING TO ENHANCE
THE LOCATION THAT WE ALREADY
HAVE IDENTIFIED WHICH IS A STOP
AND BE ABLE TO TO BE ABLE TO
FOLD ALL THOSE REQUIREMENTS.
WHAT WOULD MAKE A SUPER GREAT
REALLY IT'S NOT JUST SHELTER.
IT ALSO IS ABOUT ENHANCED
ACCESSIBILITY AT THESE
LOCATIONS BECAUSE YOU CAN BE A
LITTLE BIT CHALLENGING.
WE ANTICIPATE THERE BEING A
HIGH RIDER VOLUME AND SO WE
WANT TO BE ABLE TO EXPAND THIS
THESE LOCATIONS NOT JUST AS A
STOP BUT AS IS JEFF MENTIONED,
WE SEE WE SEE OUTSIDE USERS
COMING TO THIS AREA MAYBE
PARKING THERE AND BEING ABLE TO
TAKE THE THE RAPID TRANSIT
RIGHT DOWNTOWN AND SO BEING
ABLE TO ENHANCE ALL THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT WE'RE CONTINUING
TO WORK.
OK, GREAT.
YOU TALKED ABOUT THE
SUPERSTATES.
NOW I ACTUALLY WANT TO ASK
ABOUT THE SUPERBLOCK AND I
THINK THAT IS REFERRING TO THE
OVERALL SITE WHERE THAN THE
BLOCKS WITHIN AND I CONFESS I I
HAVE BEEN ADMISSION TO LONG
ENOUGH TO KNOW THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT WHAT THE APPROPRIATE SIZE
OF THE BLOCKS WHERE DID WE LAND
AND WHAT THE BLOCKS ARE AND
IDEALLY MAYBE THIS IS NOT A
QUIZ FOR ANN ARBOR LIKE PUT IT
IN THE DOWNTOWN GRID BUT BONUS
POINTS IF YOU CAN SAY IT'S LIKE
THIS BLOCK DOWNTOWN YOU'RE LIKE
YEAH.
WHAT IS THE WALKING EXPERIENCE
GOING TO BE LIKE?
I'LL TOUCH ON IT AND JEFF I
KNOW HE HAS SOME REALLY GOOD
THOUGHTS ON THIS.
MR. MILLS, YOU CAN REMEMBER WE
STARTED ON THIS A YEAR AGO AND
THE FIRST INTRODUCTION IT'S
EVOLVED.
RIGHT?
AND SO THROUGH THAT EVOLUTION
THE SUPERBLOCK REFERS TO THE
EXISTING LOCATION RIGHT NOW
IT'S JUST IT'S JUST UGLY.
IT JUST DOESN'T LOOK GOOD.
IT DOESN'T WORK RIGHT.
AND SO BY BREAKING IT DOWN WHEN
WE STARTED WITH THE INITIAL T
ONE REQUIREMENTS AS YOU
REMEMBER KIND OF AS A TEST FOR
THIS PROJECT, WE FELT THAT
THERE WERE IMPROVEMENTS THAT
COULD BE DONE AND SO WORKING
THROUGH ORDINANCE OR C AND THEN
CONTINUING YOU KNOW, WE CAME
HERE PROBABLY WHAT LAST MAY OR
JUNE TO DISCUSS THIS AND SO
WE'VE EVOLVED THAT INTO MORE
MANAGEABLE BLOCKS THAT PROVIDE
THAT PEDESTRIAN SCALE.
THAT WAS THE REAL GOAL I THINK
IS WHAT IT WAS WHEN WE WHEN T
WHEN WE STARTED OFF THAT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE AND BEING ABLE
TO DO THAT, WE FEEL THAT WE'VE
REALLY ACHIEVED THAT WITH THIS
PLAN.
THE BUSINESS PLAN IS GIGANTIC
AND I THINK I ALMOST BROKE MY
COMPUTER AND DOWNLOADING IT.
DO YOU KNOW WHAT THE LIKE
OF YOU'RE NOT SUPER BLOCKS BUT
YOU'RE INSIDE LACKS LIKE WHAT
THE DIMENSIONS ARE OVERALL
THREE HUNDRED TWENTY TWO
THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY
TWO THREE HUNDRED FORTY.
SO WE'RE TALKING MORE LIKE THE
LONG BLOCK BETWEEN YEAH.
>> DO WE KNOW 82ND DIVISION
YESTERDAY IN DIVISION THAT
YEAH.
THAT SORT OF THINKING THAT IT'S
SOME OF THIS THEY RANGE SOME
OF THE BLOCKS ARE AS SMALL AS
OUR IDEAL THAT HERE ON MAIN
WASHINGTON FORCE AND SOME
OF THEM ARE A LITTLE BIT BIGGER
LIKE THE LIKE THE BLACK ONE
RIGHT NOW BUT THEY AND SO
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT MIX BUT
THEY'RE ALL WITH THERE THEY
MEET WITHIN OUR THEY THEY MET
WITHIN OUR SORT OF IDEAL AND
THEY MEET WITH EACH BUILDING
MEETS OUR MAXIMUM DIAGONAL
DIMENSION.
OK, WHEN THEY CAME TO THE
WORKING SESSION THERE WAS YOU
HAD AN OVERLAY DIAGRAM AND I
WILL TRY TO MAKE SURE THAT'S
INCLUDED WHETHER IT BE IN THE
STAFF REPORT OR IN JUST THE
PRESENTATION MATERIALS TO TO
PUT A VISUAL TO UM TO PUT A
VISUAL WITH IT.
THAT WOULD BE GREAT BECAUSE I'M
JUST THINKING RIGHT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS AS A
NEIGHBORHOOD YOU'RE
ESTABLISHING RIGHT.
A LAND PATTERN THAT MAYBE CAN
MOVE FROM THERE RIGHT.
ESTABLISHING BLOCKS THAT MAYBE
SOMEDAY WITH REDEVELOP IT WILL
CONTINUE ON ACROSS THE STREET
RIGHT IN LOTS OF DIRECTIONS AND
SO UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT THAT
LOOKS AND FEELS LIKE SO THAT
THE GRID THE STREET CRED CAN
ALSO EVOLVE I THINK IS GREAT.
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT FINAL
THING.
>> I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
AFFORDABLE FEIZ COMING FIRST.
>> I THINK THERE'S SOMETIMES
AND GIGANTOR IN LARGE
DEVELOPMENTS RIGHT.
WE WONDER ARE WE EVER GOING TO
GET TO THAT FINAL PHASE?
AND SO KNOWING THAT THE FIRST
PHASE IS THE AFFORDABLE PHASE I
THINK IS GREAT.
I HOPE THAT THIS WHOLE THING
GETS BUILT RIGHT AND KNOWING
THAT SOME OF THE COMPONENTS
THAT PULL THINGS UP TO THE
STREET AND ALL THAT OUR VALUES
COME FIRST.
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY HELPFUL.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
I HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS.
UM, FIRST OF ALL, I THINK
BUILDING IS KIND OF BUILDING ON
AN EMPTY PARKING LOT IS
WONDERFUL.
UH, WITH THE WITH THE MIX
OF HOUSING TYPES AND SUCH, IT'S
NOT GOING TO CREATE ANY OF THE
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL HOME
PROBLEMS THAT WE'RE GRAPPLING
WITH NOW.
SO THAT'S AWESOME AND I DO HOPE
IT DOES EXPAND.
THERE'S SO MUCH VACANT SPACE IN
THAT PART OF TOWN AND IF YOU
COULD CREATE A PATTERN THAT
COULD GROW THAT WOULD BE AN
AWESOME THING.
UM, I DO WONDER MR. GARBER
MENTIONED WHY NOT JUST IF THE
PARKING IF THE LAST PHASE IS A
PARKING DECK, COULD YOU WAIT
AND SEE IF YOU REALLY NEED THE
PARKING DECK?
YOU MAY REALIZE AFTER YOU GET
THROUGH THE FIRST FOUR PHASES
THAT IN FACT WE DON'T NEED
ANOTHER PARKING DECK.
IS IT POSSIBLE TO HAVE THAT BE
A CONTINGENT THING ON DEMAND?
I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT NEEDS TO
BE ANSWERED TODAY BUT JUST TO
SUGGEST MAYBE THAT'S SOMETHING
TO THINK ABOUT.
UM, ANOTHER KIND OF MINOR
QUESTION I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT
YOUR EXPERIENCE BUILDING
BOSWELLS.
HAVE YOU BUILT THEM AND HAVE
THEY WORKED IN IN YOUR PRIOR
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS?
>> SURE.
OH I LOVE TALKING ABOUT
BOSWELLS.
>> YEAH SO WE DO UM UM FIFTEEN
YEARS AGO THEY WERE SORT
OF LIKE A TRIAL AND ERROR AND
NOW THEY VARY SLIGHTLY BY
CLIMATE BUT YEAH I MEAN THERE'S
WE DO UM I WOULD SAY 60 TO 70
PERCENT OF THE PROJECTS WE WORK
ON WE DO UM IN SOME FORM OR
FASHION.
THE REALITY IS IS THEY JUST
THEY DON'T REALLY COST THAT
MUCH.
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT THEY DON'T
COST THEY DON'T COST MORE
SUBSTANTIALLY MORE THAN LIKE A
CATCH BASIN WOULD COST AND
THERE ARE LOTS OF DIFFERENT
WAYS TO DO THEM.
YOU CAN DO AN UNDERGROUND
SYSTEM, YOU CAN DO AN OVERFLOW
DRAIN, YOU CAN DO THEM
LINEARLY, YOU CAN DO THEM WIDE
.
THEY WERE THEY'RE HARDER TO DO
WITH TREES THAT YOU CAN'T DO
THAN WITH TREES OR SOME ROOTS
THINGS THAT YOU GET GOING AND
UM THERE ARE DIFFERENT DEPTHS
THAT YOU CAN USE FOR THE
INFILTRATION.
SO YEAH I MEAN I PERSONALLY
FEEL VERY COMFORTABLE WITH
THEM.
THERE IS A LEVEL MAINTENANCE
WITH THEM SO WE BUT UM BUT
THEY'RE GREAT STRATEGY.
YEAH OK I GUESS WHAT I'M
LOOKING FOR IS YOU ACTUALLY
THIS ISN'T THE FIRST TIME YOU
ARE PROPOSING TO USE THEM NOW
AND YOU KNOW HOW TO DESIGN THEM
AND THEY'VE WORKED FOR YEAH.
THE FIRST THE FIRST PROJECTS WE
DID THEM WITH WITH A FIRM IT'S
A FIRM I WOULD SAY ABOUT
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO WE REALLY
PILOTED THEM TO SEE DOES THE
UNDERGROUND WORK BETTER OR DOES
THE OVERFLOW WORK BETTER AND
WHAT'S THE DEPTH OF THE STONE
AND WHAT'S THE SIZE OF THE
STONE AND FILTER FABRIC DO NOT
USE FILTER FABRIC YOU KNOW AND
SO WE I THINK WE'VE SORT
OF TRUTH THAT A LOT OF THOSE
FIGURED OUT IF THAT OK YEAH
THAT'S WHAT YOU WOULD ADD TO OH
I AGREE WITH OK OK GOOD.
I HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE
PHILOSOPHICAL QUESTION MAYBE
FOR YOU.
UM WE'VE BEEN HEARING WE'VE
BEEN HEARING A LOT ABOUT PEOPLE
UNHAPPY WITH THE WITH THE
BEEKMAN AND HOW EXPENSIVE IT IS
AND LIKE GEORGE AND HOW IT
DIDN'T PRODUCE WHAT IT WAS
PROMISING TO PRODUCE AND ALL
THE COMMERCIAL SPACE DOWNTOWN
THAT'S NOT ACTUALLY GOT ANY
COMMERCIAL STUFF GOING ON IN IT
AND WE SHOULD EXPECT THE
DEVELOPERS ARE WORKING OUT THE
MARKET AND EXPECT TO BE THE
PRODUCE WHAT THEY WANT TO
PRODUCE.
BUT PEOPLE KEEP POINTING TO US
EXAMPLES OF WHERE THAT'S NOT
HAPPENING.
AND I'M WONDERING ARE YOU
COMFORTABLE THAT YOU'RE
ACTUALLY GOING TO BE ABLE TO
FILL YOUR COMMERCIAL SPACES
LIKE YOU THINK YOU ARE AND
YOU'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO FIND
APARTMENTS OUT THAT AREN'T
SUPERMARKET ULTRA EXPENSIVE AND
AREN'T MEAN AND HAVE YOU HAVE
YOU REALLY DONE THAT WORK?
AND SO THIS IS A SEPARATE
QUESTION BUT I JUST WANT TO GET
YOUR SENSE OF SURE.
HOW YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT THAT.
I SPENT A LOT OF TIME STUDYING
IT.
WE OXFORD IS THE LARGEST
MANAGER OF DOWNTOWN SPACES AND
UP UNTIL JUST RECENTLY WE WERE
ACTUALLY FULL WE'VE BEEN FULL
HISTORICALLY OR FULL MOSTLY
THROUGH COVID.
WE'VE ALMOST ALWAYS BEEN FULL.
PEOPLE SEE A A VACANCY
DOWNTOWN.
THEY SEE A RESTAURANT THAT'S
BEEN AROUND FOR THIRTY FIVE
YEARS CLOSE AND ALL OF A SUDDEN
IT'S LIKE OH MY GOD THERE'S ALL
THIS VACANCY.
IT'S NOT REALLY THE CASE.
THERE'S TREMENDOUS DEMAND FOR
OUR DOWNTOWN.
IT'S A LITTLE TOUGHER ON
RESTAURANTS THESE DAYS BECAUSE
THE OFFICE SPACE IS NOT WELL
OCCUPIED DOWNTOWN.
I'D LOVE TO GET ALL MY FRIENDS
AT THE CITY TO COME BACK TO THE
OFFICE FIVE DAYS A WEEK.
I KNOW IT'S NOT REALITY.
I CAN'T I'M GLAD YOU'RE HERE
BUT THE TRUTH REVIEW OF I WAS
THE SAME WAY, RIGHT?
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE WORKING
FROM HOME SO THAT'S A LITTLE
TOUGHER ON THE RETAIL
ENVIRONMENT DOWNTOWN DOESN'T
HAVE A LOT OF HOUSING THOUGH I
THINK THE ENTIRE DDA IS ONLY
ABOUT THREE THOUSAND UNITS.
WE'RE PUTTING A THOUSAND IT
JUST A FEW BLOCKS SO WE ALREADY
HAVE THIS MASS OF PEOPLE TO
CATER TO THAT RETAIL ALONG WITH
EVERYBODY AROUND COMPARING IT
TO THE GEORGE NOT REALLY FAIR
IF YOU'LL RECALL IT USED TO BE
THERE WAS THE KROGER'S THE OLD
GEORGE MALL THAT WAS A FULL
LEVEL BELOW THE STREET TERRIBLE
RETAIL.
I CAN TELL YOU THAT FROM
EXPERIENCE WHEN I WAS IN MY
TWENTIES I MANAGED IT SO I
REMEMBER REALLY WELL IT WAS NOT
A WELL DESIGNED RETAIL MODEL.
THIS PLACE IS DESIGNED LIKE
BRIDGE PARK AND IT WAS AN
INTERESTING COMMENT ABOUT DENHA
STREET VERSUS NAPI ON THE
STREET AND IT'S A FAIRLY COMMON
WHEN THEY DESIGN BRIDGE PARK
THEY THOUGHT THE MAIN DRIVE
WOULD BE WHAT WAS MOST POPULAR.
IT TURNS OUT EVERYBODY WANTED
TO BE INSIDE BECAUSE THAT'S
WHERE IT'S WALKABLE.
>> SO WE'RE LEARNING THE
LESSONS FROM THEM ALL THE ALL
THE PAIN THEY WENT THROUGH.
THEY'RE BASICALLY ALL
EVERYTHING THEY'VE WORKED OUT.
THEY'RE BRINGING THAT HERE IN
ARBOR AND DUPLICATING WHAT'S
WORKED
.
>> SO THAT'S TO THE RETAIL
PIECE, TO THE APARTMENTS.
I THINK EVERYONE HERE IS PRETTY
CONFIDENT WHEN YOU HAVE I THINK
IT WAS 7000 APPLICATIONS FOR 20
AFFORDABLE UNITS.
>> WE'RE CONFIDENT THE
AFFORDABLE WILL RENT UM, AS FAR
AS THE MARKET RATE AGAIN WE'RE
CREATING SOMETHING THAT DOESN'T
EXIST IN ANN ARBOR.
THIS IS A WALKABLE ENVIRONMENT
LIKE AS IF YOU'RE DOWNTOWN.
WE CAN'T MATCH THE OUR
WONDERFUL DOWNTOWN.
THERE'S WAY TOO MUCH CHARACTER.
IT'S JUST TOO MANY INTERESTING
THINGS.
BUT WE CAN TRY TO TAKE A LOT
OF THE ELEMENTS THAT PEOPLE
REALLY LIKE WALKABLE
RESTAURANTS, OTHER PLACES
OF ENTERTAINMENT AND THEN
ROUGHLY FIVE STORIES OF HOUSING
RIGHT ABOVE.
AGAIN, WE DON'T HAVE THAT
DOWNTOWN.
WE'RE CREATING THAT MIX WHICH
IS WHAT MAKES IT SO INTERESTING
TO PEOPLE WHERE PEOPLE WANT TO
LIVE.
AND OF COURSE YOU HAVE ALL
OTHER BENEFITS CONVENIENT
PARKING ABLE TO JUMP ON THE
FREEWAY IF MAYBE YOU DON'T
ACTUALLY WORK IN ANN ARBOR OR
IF YOU DO WORK IN ANN YOU MAYBE
WE'RE CLOSE CLOSE BY YOU CAN
JUMP ON THE BUS.
THE STOP IS RIGHT THERE OR YOU
COULD EVEN BIKE TO WHERE YOU
WANT TO GO.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO ACCOMMODATE
ALL OF THOSE THINGS AND I THINK
IF YOU LOOK AT A DEVELOPMENT
LIKE BRIDGE PARK YOU'LL SEE
THAT IT'S PROVEN.
YEAH, COMMISSION ABRAM'S THANK
YOU.
>> I'LL CALL THE COMMENTS
OF ENTHUSIASM FOR THE PROJECT.
I JUST WANTED TO TALK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE KABULIS SHARED
STREET.
MAYBE I FORGET YOUR NAME BUT
FROM WHAT I CAN TELL THIS I
THINK FOR YOU YEAH I'M YOUR
NAME THAT OK YOU TALKED ABOUT
HOW IT WOULD BE UNCOMFORTABLE
TO DRIVE THROUGH THERE AND I
GUESS I WANT TO MAYBE HEAR A
LITTLE ABOUT THE RATIONALE FOR
NOT JUST CLOSING THAT
COMPLETELY TO VEHICLES.
WHEN I LOOK AT THE SITE PLAN
AND I THINK ABOUT TRYING TO GET
TO THE PARKING STRUCTURES FOR A
B THREE OR C ONE CITY IT'S KIND
OF MAKES SENSE THAT YOU WOULD
USE THAT MORE THAN WHAT STREET
WOULD YOU SAY TO GET THROUGH
THE AND IF YOU'RE GOING TO THAT
A PART OF THE SITE IT JUST
FEELS LIKE YOU COULD ACCESS
EVERYTHING REALLY CONVENIENTLY
AND HAVE THAT CLOSED.
SO MAYBE COULD YOU CLOSE IT?
I'M SURE YOU THOUGHT ABOUT IT.
THERE IS AN INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
IT TO BE OPEN SOMETIMES AND
CLOSED OTHER TIMES WITH
BOLLARDS OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
.
UM FOR THE REST OF THE TEAM
FEEL FREE TO JUMP IN AND HELP
ME ANSWER THIS BUT I'LL TRY TO
ANSWER IT SO IT'S A GREAT
QUESTION.
>> I THINK SO MY PERSONAL
OPINION IS I HAVE SO MANY BIKES
TO WORK EVERY DAY.
I'M A VERY AVID PET PERSON LIKE
A MOBILITY PERSON AND I STILL
BELIEVE THE STREETS WERE MIXED
WHERE CARS AND PEDESTRIANS AND
BIKES MIX ARE BETTER BECAUSE
THE THING IS IS WITH A STREET
LIKE THAT I DON'T THINK THERE
IS A SITUATION WHERE IT'S
TOTALLY CLOSED BECAUSE YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE AN
EMERGENCY VEHICLE TO GET
THROUGH IT ANYWAY.
SO IT'S REALLY JUST A QUESTION
OF WHAT THRESHOLD IS IT CLOSED?
IS IT CLOSED 90 PERCENT OF THE
TIME IS IT CLOSED NINETY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE TIME IS CLOSED
10 PERCENT OF THE TIME.
SO TO ME THERE'S A GRADIENT I
WOULD ADVOCATE FOR DESIGNING IT
AS A PEDESTRIAN SPACE THAT
VEHICLES CAN GET THROUGH AS AN
I THINK I SAID INVITED.
YES.
I LIKE THE WAY THAT FEELS AND I
THINK THAT FOR IT TO BE AN
EFFECTIVE SPACE I THINK IF
YOU'RE A MOTORIST AND YOU'RE
DRIVING THROUGH IT YOU SHOULD
FEEL SLIGHTLY UNCOMFORTABLE.
YOU SHOULD SLOW WAY DOWN AND
FEEL AND BE VERY AWARE
OF WHAT'S GOING ON.
IS IT MAKES SENSE NOT NOT TO ME
BUT MAYBE OTHERS CAN HELP ME.
I MEAN I THINK OF COURSE
THERE'S LIKE EMERGENCY VEHICLE
ACCESS ALWAYS TO ACCOMMODATE A
SEPARATE AND A RESIDENT TRYING
TO GET TO SEE THREE CUTTING
FEET AS OPPOSED TO USING THE
NORTHERN ACCESS ROAD OR I LIKE
THE IDEA OF BEING ABLE TO MAKE
A PEDESTRIAN ONLY IT MIGHT BE
AT SOME POINT IN THE FUTURE WE
CAN FIGURE OUT HOW TO MAKE THAT
WORK.
I THINK WHAT I WAS SAYING IS
WE'RE NOT IT'S NOT EVEN SO MUCH
MAKING IT UNCOMFORTABLE FOR THE
DRIVER.
IT'S GIVING THE DRIVER LESS
REASON TO WANT TO DRIVE THROUGH
THERE.
YEAH.
SO AS YOU OBSERVED, PARKING
STRUCTURES ARE LOCATED CLOSER
TO THE MAIN ROUTES SO THAT YOU
NEED TO GET TO A STRUCTURE TO
PARK.
YOU DON'T NEED THAT.
YOU DON'T NEED TO GO THROUGH
THERE.
YOU CAN GET TO THE STRUCTURES
FROM ANY OTHER PLACE AS FAR AS
THE ABILITY TO THROUGH THERE
THOUGH, THAT'S SOMETHING WE'RE
GOING ABOUT.
YEAH, WE I MEAN I DON'T EXPECT
YOU AGREE WITH ME ON THE SPOT
BUT LET ME JUST SAY I MEAN I
THINK IT'S IT'S LIKE TWO SIDES
OF THE SAME.
RIGHT.
SO WE COULD TALK ABOUT MAIN
STREET DOWNTOWN BEING ALSO A
PLACE I WOULD NEVER DRIVE
THROUGH BECAUSE WHO WANTS TO
DEAL WITH THE TRAFFIC THE RIGHT
I WOULD ALWAYS GO AROUND IF I
NEEDED TO GO.
HOWEVER, WE ALSO I THINK
PROBABLY CAN AGREE THAT IT'S
MUCH NICER IN THE SUMMER WHEN
IT'S ACTUALLY CLOSE TO
AUTOMOBILES COMPLETELY SO.
AND I THINK THAT FOR PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY LIKE SAFETY PEOPLE WITH
STROLLERS ALL OVER THE CITY AND
ALSO IT WOULD BE BETTER TO BE
CLOSE.
AND I ALSO NOTICED THAT THE
KIND OF IMAGES YOU SHOWED IN
THE SLIDE ON THE PLACEMAKING
SIDE THERE ARE NO VISIBLE
AUTOMOBILES.
THERE'S JUST PEOPLE.
SO I JUST THINK ABOUT IT'S ALSO
YOU KNOW, IT'S JUST A COMMENT.
>> IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT THANK
YOU GOD.
I JUST WANT TO JUMP IN HERE
BECAUSE THIS IS MY COMMENT SO
PLEASE STAY.
SO THE FIRST THING IS YOU ARE
GOING VEHICULAR ACCESS DRIVES
YOU SERIOUS?
OK, WHO SETS THE SPEED LIMIT
FOR VEHICULAR USE AREAS YOU CAN
CALL THEM STREETS.
I KNOW YOU WERE VERY CLEAR THEY
WEREN'T STREET YOU CAN CALL
THEM STREETS WITH A LOWERCASE
I'M JUST SAYING FOR FOR
REGULATION FOR REGULATION
PURPOSES AND FOR LANDSCAPING
REQUIREMENTS THEY ARE
REGULATORY YOU CAN CALL THEM A
STREET IF YOU LIKE THE STREET
THE DEVELOPER CAN SET THE SPEED
LIMITS NOW THEY CAN I BELIEVE I
AM A LITTLE BIT OUTSIDE OF MY
WHEELHOUSE THEY CAN CONSULT
WITH TRAFFIC MANUALS AND
TRAFFIC ENGINEERS BUT THEY CAN
SET THE SPEED LIMIT.
I WILL ALSO SAY THAT FOLLOWING
A WELL I WANTED TO JUMP IN I
COULD NOT HELP MYSELF IN
EARLIER PRESENTATIONS FROM THIS
TEAM THEY HAD EMPHASIZED HOW
THEY HAD DESIGNED THE PROJECT
SO THAT THAT MAIN STREET COULD
BE CLOSED AND YET STILL CROSS
ACCESS CAN STILL BE MAINTAINED
TO ALL OF THE PARKING
STRUCTURES TOLD THE RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS THE COMMERCIAL ROADS
AND SO FORTH.
I THINK THEIR INTENTION IS TO
CLOSE THEM FREQUENTLY AND OFTEN
EVERY SINGLE TIME THERE IS AN
EVENT THERE WOULD NOT BE
THROUGH TRAFFIC DURING THE
EVENT AND OPERATED VERY SIMILAR
TO MAIN STREET.
I THINK THERE MIGHT HOURS AND
MAYBE DAYS UPON DAYS WHERE THE
THAT MAIN STREET WOULD BE
CLOSED BUT WHEN THERE IS NO
EVENT MAYBE IN THE OFF SEASON
MAYBE THE STREET WOULD BE OPEN.
SO I DON'T THINK WHEN THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT CORRECT ME IF I'M
WRONG THEY WERE PLANNING ON
CLOSING THE STREETS TO
VEHICULAR USE DURING AN EVENT
BUT THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO
KEEP IT OPEN WHEN THERE'S NO
EVENT.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
SO I WOULD LOVE TO SAY PLEASE
CLOSE IT LIKE COMPLETELY EARLY
LIKE GET RID OF IT.
THERE'S JUST NO REASON TO HAVE
CARS GO THROUGH IT.
WE KNOW HOW TO DEAL WITH
EMERGENCY VEHICLES, PUBLIC
RETRACTABLE BOLLARDS AT THOSE
ENTRANCES RAISE THE CROSSWALKS
SO THAT IF YOU IGNORE OUR
FEEDBACK THE CARS RECOGNIZE
THAT THEY ARE CHANGING THE
TOPOLOGY OF THE ROAD SO THAT
THEY ARE ENTERING INTO A
PEDESTRIAN SPACE.
SO WE LOVE GOING TO PLACES THAT
ARE REALLY DESIGNED AND YOU'VE
TALKED A LOT ABOUT DESIGN FOR
PEDESTRIANS LIKE AMERICANS LOVE
,RIGHT?
WE TRAVEL ABROAD.
WE WALK EVERYWHERE.
WE HAVE THESE GOOD, GREAT
EXPERIENCES AND WE'RE JUST LIKE
AND THEN WE GET HERE AND WE
TALK ABOUT IT AS A FIFTEEN
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
EVERYONE'S LIKE OH NO, YOU'RE
GOING TO TAKE MY CAR AWAY.
AND SO THERE'S THIS DISCONNECT
BETWEEN OUR ACTUAL EXPERIENCE
AND SOME DISTORTION REALITY
FEEL THAT WE ARE INTO WHEN WE
COME BACK AND I RECOGNIZE THAT
WE ARE IN MICHIGAN.
I RECOGNIZE THAT WE DON'T HAVE
THE KINDS OF TRANSPORTATION
THAT WE WANT TO MAKE IT EASIER
FOR US TO GO CAR FREE OR EVEN
CAR RIDE.
BUT YOU ARE CREATING SOMETHING
THAT IS GOING TO SURVIVE YOU
AND YOU GET TO LAY A FOUNDATION
FOR WHAT IS TO COME.
SO AS A PASTOR I TALK ABOUT A
PROPHETIC IMAGINATION.
IT IMAGINES THAT REALITY THAT
DOES NOT YET EXIST BUT IT LAYS
THE WAY FOR IT SO THAT WE CAN
BRING THAT IMAGINED SPACE INTO
PEOPLES LIVED EXPERIENCE AND SO
O POWER OR YOU KNOW, RETREAT
FROM THIS OPPORTUNITY TO DO
SOMETHING THAT MAY JUST BE
UNCOMFORTABLE BUT WILL ACHIEVE
THE GOALS THAT YOU TALKED
ABOUT.
I THINK COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
ARTICULATED VERY WELL THE
PICTURES YOU SHOWED US YOU
DIDN'T PUT VEHICLES IN IT.
YOU'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
PLACEMAKING AND YOU'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT IT BEING AT A
HUMAN SCALE.
YOU'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT YOUR
STREETS BEING AT A HUMAN SCALE
AND YET YOU ARE GIVING SO MUCH
DEFERENCE TO CARS.
AND SO IF YOU CAN HEAR US I
WOULD SAY GET RID OF IT
COMPLETELY.
BUT IF YOU REFUSE WHICH IS YOUR
RIGHT CHANGE THE APOLOGY
LOWERED THE SPEED LIMITS PUT IN
RETRACTABLE BALL IT'S A REALLY
GOOD ONE SO THAT PEOPLE CAN GET
ACCIDENTALLY DRIVE THROUGH
BECAUSE THEY HIT THE GAS AND
THEY HIT THE BRAKES.
YOU'RE PULLING INTO PEOPLE AND
YOU'RE SEEING THE UNIVERSITY
MAKE THESE CHANGES IN THE
SPACES AROUND THE STADIUM WHERE
THEY'RE PUTTING IN THESE
BOLLARDS.
WE SEE
THE PROTECTION
OF ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT WITH
BOLLARDS.
RIGHT.
WE RECOGNIZE THAT THOSE THINGS
ARE DANGEROUS WHEN CARS
INTERACT WITH THEM BUT WE DON'T
SEEM TO GET THAT SAME DEFERENCE
TO THE HUMAN THAT MAY BE IN NO
SPACE OR SO SO THAT THAT IS A
REALLY IMPORTANT POINT THAT I
WANTED TO JUST ECHO FROM
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS OR ANYONE
ELSE.
>> I HAVE SOME OTHER COMMENTS
BUT I WANT TO MAKE SURE
EVERYONE ELSE IS ABLE TO.
BUT YEAH, YOU MAY SINCE YOU
WILL BE COMING BACK TO IN JUNE
OR WHATEVER DATE WE AGREE ON UM
,I GUESS I WANT TO GO BACK TO
THE GAS VERSUS ELECTRIC.
>> YOU CAN SELL CONDOS WITHOUT
GAS YOU CAN PEOPLE REALLY LIKE
INDUCTION SO I REALLY WANT TO
PUT IN A PLUG FOR THAT AND THEN
I I REALLY DON'T KNOW I'M
TALKING ABOUT I'M NOT AN EXPERT
BUT I'D LOVE TO SEE DATA ON GAS
GENERATORS BEING MORE RELIABLE
THAN BATTERIES FOR LIFE SAFETY.
IT COULD MULTIFAMILY I DON'T
REALLY HAVE EXPERIENCE IN THAT
YET BUT IF THERE IS DATA TO
SUPPORT THAT I'D BE INTERESTED
IN SEEING THAT FOR MY OWN
PERSONAL BECAUSE WE CAN'T MAKE
YOU DO ANYTHING BUT THINK ABOUT
THIS ESPECIALLY BECAUSE YOU'RE
NOT BUILDING TOMORROW SO LIKE
TECHNOLOGY'S CHANGING.
>> SURE, SURE.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE
MAY COME BACK TO
THE PARKING SO AND YOU KNEW
WHAT I WAS GOING TO TALK ABOUT
.
IT'S IT'S STILL TOO MUCH
PARKING AND CAME BACK TO US
AFTER WE BUILT AND WHEN WE WENT
I THINK IT WAS EITHER THEIR
SECOND OR THIRD PLACE THEY
REALIZED HOW UNDER PARKED THEY
WERE.
SO THEY'RE RIGHT.
THEY WERE RIGHT AT TWO POINT
SIX I THINK BUT THEY PROPOSED
MORE THAN THAT SINCE YOU ARE
THE PROPERTY OWNER OF THAT
RESIDENTIAL EXCUSE ME THE
COMMERCIAL SPACE WHERE THOSE
LEASES ARE ARE THE
OPPORTUNITIES TO RENEGOTIATE
THOSE LEASES TO CHANGE THE
TERMS OF THE PARKING BECAUSE IT
JUST IS STILL A LOT OF ASSETS
AND RESOURCES THAT ARE BEING
CONTRIBUTE TO CAR STORAGE AND
ANY TIME WHERE I'M SITTING AT
THE TABLE I'M HEARING ABOUT CAR
STORAGE VERSUS EITHER CREATING
HOUSING OR MORE SPACE FOR
PEOPLE I'M AN ADVOCATE FOR THE
PEOPLE AND THE HOUSING OVER THE
CAR STORAGE AND SO I JUST
WANTED TO OFFER THAT TO YOU.
I KNOW YOU'RE HEARING A LOT
FROM US BUT YOU'RE ALSO
SURROUNDED BY A LOT OF PARKING.
YOU'RE SURROUNDED BY SERIES
OF PARKING LOTS AND SO THE IDEA
THAT THEY HAVE TO SIT WITHIN
THE DEVELOPMENT I UNDERSTAND
WHAT YOU'RE TRYING TO ACHIEVE.
I THINK THERE ARE OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES TO TO PARK PEOPLE
TO SEE IF THOSE ARE THERE AND
THEN IF SOMEONE CAN BRING UP
THE MAP OF THE SITE.
I HAVE SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
BUS CONVERSATION THAT
COMMISSIONER MILLS STARTED.
I CAN'T GET TO THE TABLE YET.
WHAT HAVE YOU OR YOUR STAFF CAN
BREAK IT UP.
I DON'T KNOW WHO'S IN CHARGE
OF WHAT.
YEAH, I NEED TO DO SOMETHING
HERE.
I CAN JUST LET ME KNOW IT'S ON
OUR SCREEN HERE.
OH IT'S HERE BUT YOU CAN'T SEE
IT ON THE MAP SO OR ON THE
LARGE SCREEN SO PROBABLY PEOPLE
WON'T KNOW WHAT I'M SAYING.
YES, I THINK THAT IS THERE WE
GO.
WE HAVE A SEAT AND WE'LL FLIP
OVER TURN.
>> YEP.
OK SO THERE ARE STATE STREET
BUSING WHEN YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE SUPER STOP THE THING
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT SO I BIKE
IN THIS AREA PRETTY MUCH EVERY
DAY THAT I GO OUT BIKING MY
KIDS ARE ON WALK BECAUSE
THERE'S THE AERIAL CIRCUS
THAT'S DOWN THERE AND THEY DO
THAT.
SO I'M IN THIS AREA RIGHT
THERE.
I DIDN'T BALLASTED SCHOOL
DISTRICT ADMINISTRATIVE
BUILDINGS OVER THERE SO
CROSSING STATE IS HORRIBLE LIKE
WE ALL KNOW THAT IN EVERY
IMAGINABLE WAY.
IT'S HORRIBLE.
SO YOU HAVE PEOPLE COMING ON
THE BUS AND THEY'RE GOING TO
GET OFF THE BUS.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE ON THE WEST
SIDE OF STATE AND THEY HAVE TO
GET TO YOUR DEVELOPMENT.
>> WHAT IS THE PROPOSAL TO HELP
WITH THAT?
I WILL ALSO SAY THAT THIS IS
EXACTLY THE CONVERSATION THAT
THAT THESE CONVERSATIONS ARE
OCCURRING NOW AND THIS WEEK AND
NEXT WEEK IS THAT TO SAY WAIT
AND THEN THEY WILL GET ANSWER
TO ALL IS SHOULD BE CAN I
CONTINUE HERE?
I WOULD I AM INTERESTED IN WHAT
MR. IS IS GOING TO REPORT.
I AM ALSO INTERESTED IN YOUR
COMMENTS AND YOUR WISH LIST AND
SO ON AND SO FORTH.
BUT I WILL SAY THAT IS PART
OF THE BIG PICTURE CONVERSATION
ABOUT THE CITY SIGNING ON THE
DOTTED LINE FOR THE PARKING
STRUCTURES.
SO ONE OR ALL OF THE PARKING
STRUCTURES WILL THEN BE USED AS
A I THINK THEY CALL IT A MODE
SHIFT OR MODE TRANSFER POINT
AND THE CITY WOULD BE LOOKING
FOR SPECIFIC DESIGN FEATURES
THAT FACILITATE THIS TRANSFER.
WE ARE ALSO TALKING ABOUT IF
THESE ARE PARKING RIDES OR THIS
IS WHERE YOU SHIFT MODES, THEN
HOW DO YOU GET EITHER FROM THE
SITE OFF OR HOW DO YOU COME OFF
A SITE ON AND THESE I'M NOT
SURE IF WE HAVE THE FINAL
ANSWERS BUT WE THIS WE ARE AT
THE DESIGN LEVEL AND WE ARE
CREATING THE WISH LIST AND THEN
EXECUTING AS WE SPEAK AS PART
OF THE FINAL DECISIONS RELATED
TO THE PARKING STRUCTURE.
SO I AM INTERESTED AND I AM
TAKING NOTES AND I'M ALSO
INTERESTED FOR YOU THE LATEST
DEVELOPMENTS TO CHECK.
SO THEN IS IT POSSIBLE FOR THE
BUS TO GO INTO ONE OF THE
STRUCTURES SO MUCH PEOPLE AS
OPPOSED TO THESE STOPS THAT
WERE ON THE MAP THAT ARE
OUTSIDE?
>> I DO MY MY EXPERIENCE HAS
BEEN A BUS WOULD NOT ENTER THE
STRUCTURE.
THEY MIGHT BE TOO LARGE.
HOWEVER, THEY MIGHT GO DIRECTLY
TO THE FRONT DOOR.
OK, NOW SO THAT THAT'S THE
DIRECTION OF MY QUESTION IS HOW
ARE YOU GOING TO GET PEOPLE OFF
OF THE BUS FROM THE WEST SIDE
INTO THE DEVELOPMENT?
WILL THE OR DO WE REALLY
ALLUDED TO SOME OF THE
EVOLUTION THAT WE'RE GOING TO
BE GOING THROUGH WITH THE THE
CONTINUOUS DISCUSSION WHEN IT
COMES TO TRANSPORTATION?
SO AS PART OF THE PARKING
STRUCTURES AS I MENTIONED
EARLIER, WE'RE CONTINUING TO
EVOLVE OUR REVIEW OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY AND
TRANSPORTATION TRANSPORTATION.
IT'S EASY TO TALK ABOUT CARS.
IT'S EASY TO GET VEHICLES IN
AND OUT.
BUT WHEN WE REALLY LOOK AT IT
FROM THE MULTIMODAL STANDPOINT
AND I THINK THIS DIAGRAM IS A
GOOD ONE THAT REPRESENTS IT IS
WE ARE PROVIDING A LOT MORE.
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, THERE WAS
SOME DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
EXISTING SPACES WITHIN THE
THERE IS NO BIKE PARKING.
THERE ISN'T WITHIN THE EXISTING
WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY AND YOU
CAN SEE AS PART OF THIS PART
OF THIS DIAGRAM ALL THE
DIFFERENT LOCATION AND THE
DIFFERENT VARIETIES THAT WILL
BE PROVIDING WHEN IT COMES TO
ULCERATED.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS BEFORE.
YOUR FAMILIARITY WITH THAT AREA
AND YOUR ABILITY TO BIKE
THROUGH IT.
AND SO WE ALSO IF YOU LOOK
ALONG LONG BOARDWALK, IF YOU IF
YOU COME TO OAKBROOK THERE IS
TERMINATES THE BIKE LANE
TERMINATES.
WE'RE PROVIDING THAT
CONNECTIVITY THERE.
AND SO AT THIS POINT THEN WE
HAVE CONTINUITY BETWEEN BIKE
AND THEN WE ARE ALSO HAVING AN
INDUSTRY CONNECTION ON THAT
NORTHERN DRIVE AS WELL.
SO WE ARE LOOKING LIKE THAT.
SO WHEN WE SEE ABOUT THE BUSSES
ON THE WEST SIDE THAT IS THAT
IS ONE OF THE AREAS I THINK
THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE FOCUSING
ON.
WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
POTENTIALLY LOOK AT MAYBE SOME
MEDIANS THERE PEDESTRIAN
CROSSING THAT OFFERS A SAFE
CROSSING ACROSS.
JEFF USES THE HUMAN FROGGER
ANALOGY QUITE A BIT.
IT FEELS THAT WAY EVEN IF
YOU'RE CROSSING IF YOU'RE
CROSSING AT A LIGHT IT CAN BE
DIFFICULT.
AND SO WE HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
PROVIDE SOME IMPROVEMENTS,
WORKING WITH TRANSPORTATION,
WORKING WITH STAFF AS WE
CONTINUE ON TO HAVE PROBABLY
MORE EFFECTIVE PEDESTRIAN
EXPERIENCE ON THOSE CROSSINGS
BOTH AT ST. AND EISENHOWER.
IT COULD BE A MEDIUM IT COULD
BE SOMETHING ELSE.
BUT WE DEFINITELY ARE IN THE
MIDST OF EXPLORING THAT AND I'M
SURE AS WE AS WE CONTINUE TO
MOVE FORWARD ON THE DESIGN THE
POINT DELIO SAID THE WISH LIST
OF ITEMS WILL BE ADDRESSING A
LOT OF THESE ISSUES THAT WE'RE
GOING FORWARD.
>> WE'RE AWARE OF THEM.
WE HAVE TO HAVE A PLAN THAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE LOOKING TO
CONTINUE TO ADDRESS THESE ITEMS
.
>> AND WHEN WE COME BACK TO YOU
IN JUNE, I'M SURE ALL THESE
THINGS WILL BE WILL BE THERE.
SO YOU'RE SAYING CAN YOU GO
BACK TO THE BUS STOP BECAUSE
YOU TALKED A LOT ABOUT THE
BIKES.
THANK YOU.
BUT I'D LIK TO FOCUS ON THAT
SO IT WOULD BE LOVELY IF THE
BUS COULD COME INTO THE
DEVELOPMENT AND BE ONE THEY
COULD DROP OFF THEIR WAY TO
TAKE A LESSON THAT THEY COULD
GO RIGHT BACK.
RIGHT BECAUSE THEY COULD JUST
DO A CIRCUIT KIND OF THING
BECAUSE IT'S REALLY GOING TO BE
HARD ESPECIALLY AS YOU ARE
IMAGINING THIS BEING A BACK IN
DOWNTOWN.
SO IF PEOPLE ARE HERE FOR THE
GAME AND THEY GO IN AND THEN
THEY COME DOWN, STAY ON THE
BUS, THEY'VE GOT TO CROSS.
WHAT IS IT?
I THINK IT'S FIVE LANES AT
LEAST FIVE LANES OF TRAFFIC AND
SO ANYTHING TO GET THEM FROM
THE WEST INTO THE DEVELOPMENT
WOULD BE GREAT.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND WE AS I MENTIONED BEFORE,
HAS BEEN INVOLVED.
WE HAVE SOME UPCOMING MEETINGS
OF WHICH THEY'RE GOING TO BE
PRESENT.
SOME OF THESE ITEMS YOU
MENTIONED WILL BE BROUGHT UP
AND WE'LL SEE HOW HOW WE CAN
BEST ADDRESS THESE ITEMS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
DID YOU WANT TO SAY I WAS GOING
TO SAY THIS HAS BEEN STUDIED
QUITE A BIT GOING BACK TO SEVEN
OR EIGHT YEARS AGO THERE WAS A
STATE STREET TRANSPORTATION
PLAN AND THAT IS SOMETHING WE
WE WOULD LOVE TO SEE WORKING
WITH THE CITY AS SOME OF THOSE
VISIONS REALIZED.
IT INCLUDES THAT MEDIUM THAT
YOU'RE REFERENCING SO THAT IT
IS IT
LIMITS THE HUMAN FROGGER
GAME GETTING ACROSS STATE
STREET
.
IT WOULD BE RIGHT AT THE STATE
EISENHOWER NEITHER SIDE RIGHT
AT THE INTERSECTION PROBABLY
GOING DOWN AT LEAST ONE HUNDRED
FEET.
>> YEAH.
SO I MEAN I THINK FOR ME THERE
EARLIER PUBLIC COMMENTARY
DURING THE PUBLIC HEARING
PARTICULARLY WELL WHAT ENDS UP
HAPPENING ON THE RAPID FLASH
AND BEKINS IS THE CARS THAT ARE
CLOSEST TO YOU THEY CAN SEE
YOU, THEY STOP THE PERSON WHO'S
BEHIND HAS BEEN DRIVING HAS
BEEN DISTRACTED.
THEY DON'T KNOW WHY PEOPLE ARE
STOPPED.
THEY'RE LIKE WHY ARE YOU
STOPPED IN THE MIDDLE OF THIS
ROAD?
IT GOES ME.
I'M JUST GOING TO SWERVE AROUND
YOU.
OH LOOK, I I ALMOST GOT KILLED
IN A SITUATION LIKE THAT.
FULLER THAT WAS THE EXACT THING
THAT OCCURRED.
THE PERSON BEHIND WASN'T PAYING
ATTENTION TO THE PERSON WHO HAS
STOPPED AND THEY SMASHED INTO
THE PERSON TO STOP AS I WAS
COMING IN AND THEY WOULD HAVE
PUSHED THAT PERSON RIGHT INTO
ME.
SO LIKE I DID THAT IT'S BEEN
LOOKED AT, IT'S BEEN STUDIED.
BUT AGAIN, YOU'RE BUILDING
SOMETHING THAT WE HAVEN'T SEEN
THAT CAN BE A TEMPLATE.
YOU CAN BE A PIONEER IN
ADDITION TO YOU ALL OF THE WORK
THAT YOU'RE DOING YOU CAN
REIMAGINE HOW WE USE
TRANSPORTATION TO GET INTO
DEVELOPMENTS LIKE THIS BY
ROUTING US IN MORE SAFELY AND
REALLY SORT OF ACTUALIZING YOUR
VISION OF THIS BEING SORT
OF PLACEMAKING PEDESTRIAN
CENTRIC DEVELOPMENT.
SO YEAH, THESE ARE ALL GREAT
POINTS.
THESE ARE ALL GREAT POINTS AND
THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT WE'RE
TAKING BACK AS PART WITH OUR
DEVELOPMENT TEAM AND CONTINUING
TO IMPLEMENT GREAT YOU SMILING
BEHIND MY MASK, MR. I DON'T
WANT TO I DON'T WANT TO DISPUTE
ANY OF THE POINTS I THINK THAT
WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT IS
REALLY IMPORTANT.
I JUST I WANT TO REMIND THE
COMMISSION ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT ONE OF THE CONVERSATIONS
WE HAD WITH SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
TAXI ONE WAS UM THE IMPORTANCE
OF BRINGING PEOPLE TO THE
TRANSIT ROUTES AS OPPOSED TO
ALTERING OUR LAND USE THAT WAS
GOING TO DRIVE TRANSIT TO NEW
PLACES.
AND SO WHEN YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT ROUTING TRANSIT OFF
OF THE MAIN OUTS, I JUST WANT
TO REVISIT THAT IS NOT TO SAY
THAT I'M SITTING HERE SAYING
THAT THAT'S NOT A GOOD IDEA BUT
THERE I THINK THE FIRST
RESPONSE TO THE RIDE IS WE WE
WANT TO BRING PEOPLE TO THOSE
TRANSIT ROUTES.
THAT'S HOW WE BUILD SUCCESSFUL
ROUTES THAT WORKS.
I THINK WHAT YOU'RE GETTING AT
IS THAT HAS TO BE SAFE AND IT
HAS TO BE FUNCTIONAL IN SOME
WAY IN ORDER FOR THAT TO BE
SUCCESSFUL.
SO AGAIN, I DON'T WANT TO SAY
THAT IT'S NOT AN OPTION BUT
THAT CAME UP SPECIFICALLY WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
BRIARWOOD AREA AND THE ONE
SPECIFICALLY I DON'T KNOW IF
OTHER COMMISSIONERS REMEMBER
THAT WAS THAT WAS A SPECIFIC
FEEDBACK WE HEARD FROM THEM WAS
UM NO IT'S NOT IT'S NOT EASY
FOR US TO JUST CHANGE THE ROUTE
ALWAYS TO GO OFF OF THE SPINE
SO JUST LIKE IN THE WAYBACK
MACHINE THEY GIVE US THE
COMMISSIONER DISH AND THEN I'LL
READ THE MOTION.
>> YEAH.
JUST ONE VERY TWO VERY QUICK
POINTS.
UM, MY UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT
THE PARKING STRUCTURES ARE
GOING TO PHASE IN I'M NOT
TRYING TO GET US TO THURSDAY
BECAUSE THERE'S STILL WEDNESDAY
BUT THAT IS TRUE SO THAT IF I
MEAN WOULD IT BE A POSSIBILITY
THAT NOT ALL THE PARKING
STRUCTURES THAT ARE FORESEEN
GET BUILT?
>> YES, IT'S A PHASE OF ITS
PHASED AND YOU'RE GOING TO SEE
THE FIRST TO THE BLOCK B BLOCK
HAPPENING PRETTY MUCH TOGETHER.
ALL OF THAT CONSTRUCTION WHILE
THEY'RE SEPARATE PHASES WILL
HAPPEN WITHIN JUST MONTHS
OF EACH OTHER.
THE C BLOCK, THE ONE FURTHEST
TO THE EAST OF THAT'S ACTUALLY
OPEN LOT RIGHT NOW.
RIGHT NEXT TO IT IS THE
EXISTING SINGLE STORY
STRUCTURE.
THAT STRUCTURE IS NOT ABLE TO
TAKE ANY MORE THAN WHAT IT'S
BUILT NOT BUILT TO TAKE ON MORE
FLOORS.
SO THAT'S GOING TO COME DOWN
THE C BUILDING IS GOING TO BE
BUILT THERE AND THAT STRUCTURE
TO THE EAST THAT STRUCTURE
MAYBE IT TURNS OUT WE DON'T
NEED AS MUCH PARKING SO WE
DON'T BUILD MANY FLOORS.
HARD TO SAY IT MAY BE THAT
EVERYONE STARTS TO COME BACK TO
THE OFFICE AND THE OFFICE
BUILDINGS DEMAND YOU WHAT THEY
ORIGINALLY HAD INTENDED.
>> SO THAT YES, THEY WILL BE
PHASED THAT YOU THEY WILL BE
PHASED.
>> BUT SEE IT MAY NOT BE AN
OPTION TO NOT BUILD THE C
BLOCK.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THE C BLOCK WILL
PROBABLY BE NEEDED REGARDLESS.
YEAH, OK.
AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO THANK
YOU FOR EMBRACING COUNCIL'S
RESOLUTION TO ASK YOU TO
CONSIDER TRANSPORTATION OUTSIDE
THE DEVELOPMENT AS WELL AS
INSIDE.
IT'S LOVELY THAT YOU MADE A
REFERENCE TO THE FACT THAT
COUNCIL PASSED THAT I DIDN'T
VOTE FOR IT BUT I'M REALLY
HAPPY THAT YOU SEE IT AS AN
INVITATION TO KEEP EVOLVING
THIS PROJECT.
SO THE REASON I DIDN'T VOTE FOR
IT IS BECAUSE ON THIS BODY WE
HAD A TALK WHEN WE WHEN WE WERE
DESIGNING TAXI ONE AND WE
THOUGHT ABOUT HOW MANY THINGS
WE SHOULD PACK INTO IT AND AT
WHAT POINT WOULD WE HAVE PACKED
SO MUCH INTO IT THAT WE WOULD
REALIZE NOTHING.
AND SO I FELT SQUEAMISH ABOUT
THAT RESOLUTION BUT I'M REALLY
HAPPY THAT YOU RECEIVE IT IN
THIS OPEN SPIRIT
OF EXPERIMENTATION THAT IS
REALLY CHEERFUL NEWS .
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SO I'LL READ THE MOTION.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION MOVES
TO POSTPONE TO THE COMMISSION'S
JUNE 17TH REGULAR MEETING FOR
ADDITIONAL TIME FOR THE
PETITIONER TO COMPLETE STAFF
REVIEWS AND TO ADDRESS
UNRESOLVED ISSUES.
IT'S ALREADY A MOVE THAT'S
ALREADY BEEN SECONDED.
ARE WE READY FOR VOTE?
I'M SORRY, COMMISSIONER NILS,
GO AHEAD.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE FROM
THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM THAT SEEMS
LIKE THE RIGHT DATE TO ALL IF
WE'RE GOING TO POSTPONE TO A
DATE CERTAIN THAT THAT SEEMS
OK.
ALL RIGHT.
GREAT.
I'M READY TO VOTE THAT WE HAVE
TO DO A ROLL CALL BECAUSE IT'S
JUST A POSTPONEMENT.
GREAT.
ALL THOSE PEOPLE SO MANY OPPOSE
THE MOTION CARRIES OK WE WILL
RECESS FOR FIVE MINUTES AND
RETURN AT EIGHT
.
WE NOW WE NOW MOVE ON TO NINE B
THE COURT PLAN REVIEW
OF CHAPTERS ONE THROUGH THREE.
I UNDERSTAND WE HAVE A STAFF
PRESENTATION BY MR. LEONARD NOT
ONLY GREAT SO I'M GOING TO TURN
OVER TO MICHELLE HERE BUT AS AS
WE DISCUSSED UH, IT'S TIME IT'S
TIME TO START GETTING YOUR
THOUGHTS, YOUR FEEDBACK.
UM, GENERALLY MICHELLE IS GOING
TO TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT HOW
TO APPROACH THIS AND WE CAN
ADAPT AS WE GO AND AS WE LEARN
THE BEST METHODS FOR IT.
>> UM, BUT WITH THAT I'M GOING
TO TURN OVER TO MICHELLE.
GOOD EVENING, COMMISSIONERS'.
THE DRAFT IS FINALLY HERE.
I HOPE YOU ALL HAD SOME TIME TO
READ.
UM, LIKE YOU HAD REQUESTED.
WE ARE BREAKING DOWN OUR NEXT
SESSION BY CHAPTERS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO IF THE NEW PLANNING
COMMISSION SCHEDULE IS APPROVED
LATER, WE WILL TACKLE CHAPTER
FOUR NEXT MEETING CHAPTER FIVE,
THE FOLLOWING MEETING CHAPTER
SIX AND THEN WE HAVE ONE CATCH
ALL MEETING AT THE END WHERE WE
CAN RETURN TO ANY LARGER
TOPICS.
SO THAT LEAVES CHAPTERS ONE,
TWO AND THREE FOR TONIGHT WHICH
SOUNDS LIKE A LOT BUT THEY ARE
MAINLY BACKGROUND CHAPTERS AND
THE OTHER SECTIONS HAVE A FULL
SESSION DEDICATED TO THEM
BECAUSE THAT'S WHERE WE REALLY
GET INTO THE MEAT OF THE GOALS,
THE STRATEGIES FOR THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP.
>> SO JUST A REMINDER THIS IS
OUR FIRST ROUND OF EDITS WE
HAVE SCHEDULED IN TWO MORE.
SO TONIGHT LET'S KEEP OUR EDITS
ON CONTENT AND YOU SEE MISSING
COMMAS OR THINGS THAT NEED TO
BE CAPITALIZED.
>> WE WILL GET TO THAT POINT
BUT NOT NOT THIS EVENING.
>> SO YEAH, SHARE YOUR COMMENTS
WITH US OR ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE THAT WE CAN TAKE BACK
AND GET ANSWERED FOR YOU IF WE
DON'T HAVE THEM THIS EVENING I
WOULD LIKE TO ALSO REMIND YOU
THAT WE HAD DECIDED FOR THIS
PROCESS THAT IF WE GET TO AN
AREA WHERE WE NEED MORE
GUIDANCE THAT WE WOULD DO THAT
BY MOTION.
SO WHAT WE WILL DO FOR ITEMS
WHERE WE ARE FEELING LIKE THERE
IS CONSENSUS AND I WILL BUT OR
I OR THE CHAIR I DON'T KNOW HOW
WE WANT TO DO THIS WILL
SUMMARIZE WHAT WE'VE HEARD AND
MAYBE JUST DO AN INFORMAL VOTE
TO SEE IS ARE WE GETTING THIS
CORRECT IF WE FEEL LIKE IT
NEEDS MORE DISCUSSION OR WE
NEED MORE GUIDANCE, MAYBE THAT
IS WHERE WE CAN WE CAN POSTPONE
WE HAVE AN EXTRA SESSION OR WE
CAN GO BY MOTION.
>> OK, CAN I CLARIFY SO FOR ME
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL IF SOMEONE
IS HOLDING THE SET OF CHANGES.
SO IF WE ARE DOING LIKE
STRIKETHROUGH OR THINGS LIKE
THAT, HOW DO YOU WANT TO
RECEIVE THOSE SO THAT BECAUSE
THE WAY I WAS GOING TO PROPOSE
WE TALK IS I DON'T THINK IT'S
GOING TO WORK FOR ME TO TRY TO
RECOGNIZE ALL OF YOU.
SO I WOULD JUST SAY OPEN YOUR
MIKES AND WE START TO WORK
THROUGH IT SECTION BY SECTION
AS WE MAKE OUR WAY.
BUT SO SOMEONE PROPOSES THAT WE
STRIKE A WHOLE PARAGRAPH HOW
ARE WE GOING TO LODGE THAT KIND
OF FEEDBACK?
HOW ARE YOU GOING TO RECEIVE
THAT?
HOW DO YOU RECEIVE THAT?
>> THAT SEEMS SUBSTANTIAL
ENOUGH FOR ME WHERE I WOULD AT
LEAST WANT TO TAKE A STRAW
VOTE.
OK, UM AND THEN IF THERE ISN'T
A MAJORITY THAT MAYBE WE MAKE A
MOTION OK AND SMALL CHANGES
WILL JUST KEEP A RUNNING LIST
OF SMALLER CHANGES.
SO STRIKE THIS WORD REPLACE IT
WITH THIS WORD FOR NOW THIS
PARAGRAPH.
YEP.
GET RID OF THIS PARAGRAPH THE
THE TABLE AND GO AHEAD.
>> WELL I HAVE ONE MORE BOOK
AND THEN I'D LIKE TO TURN IT
OVER TO YOU SO I HAVE PREPARED
SOME QUESTIONS.
I THINK THAT WAS ANOTHER
REQUEST FROM YOU ALL SO WE HAVE
ABOUT SIX QUESTIONS THAT WE CAN
USE TO GET US THROUGH THE
MATERIAL.
UM BUT WITH THAT I WILL TURN IT
OVER TO THE COMMISSIONERS FIRST
FOR YOUR YOUR INITIAL THOUGHTS
AND I'LL LET YOU START WITH THE
TOPICS YOU'D LIKE TO DECIDE IF
AND IF WE NEED TO TURN TO OUR
QUESTIONS WE WILL WE WILL
LIKELY WANT TO MAKE TIME FOR
THEM JUST BECAUSE WE HAVE
IDENTIFIED AREAS WHERE WE WOULD
LIKE YOUR INPUT BUT WE MIGHT
GET THERE ON OUR OWN FIRST WITH
YOUR COMMENTS.
>> SO WE'LL START WITH YOU DAN
AND THEN EXCUSE ME COMMISSIONER
ADAM SAID THAT COMMISSIONER
NORTMAN WILL I'M SORRY.
I'M JUST TRYING TO JUST MAKE
SURE THE TABLE IS OK AND
COMMISSIONER ADAM'S HAD
COMMENTS SO THAT'S WHAT I'M
LOOKING AT FIRST IS THE TABLE
AND THAT IS ALL RIGHT.
>> LET'S DO PROCEDURE FOR A
SUBSTANCE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'LL START WITH MILLS THEN
WE'LL GO TO AN ORDINANCE THAT
OK, I'M JUST CURIOUS IF IT'S
HELPFUL TO A PAGE BY PAGE I
MEAN WE CAN JUST SAY WE'VE
LOOKED AND WE MOVE ON.
YES.
SO THAT WE I THINK IT MIGHT BE
MORE EFFICIENT THAN HOPPING
AROUND OK WITH THAT
COMMISSIONER WERE CAN YOU CAN
YOU BRING IT LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE
GOING TO PUT IT INSIDE OR GET
AS CLOSE AS YOU CAN PLEASE.
HELLO.
HELLO NAPIER I'M WONDERING WHAT
WE'RE GOING TO DO WITH ALL
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENTS WE'VE
BEEN GETTING THAT I'M JUST
STARTING TO WORK THROUGH AND
THERE'S A LOT OF PUBLIC
COMMENTS THERE AND I'M REALLY
UNCOMFORTABLE TONIGHT SAYING
THAT WE'RE GOING TO WALK
THROUGH PAGE BY PAGE CHAPTERS
ONE THROUGH THREE AND BE DONE
WITHOUT HAVING PROCESSED ALL
OF THE THINGS WE'RE HEARING.
AND I'M ALSO A LITTLE BIT
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THIS LINE
EDITING AS COMMISSION THIS
DRAFT.
I DON'T THINK THAT I THINK IT'S
A VERY CLUNKY WAY TO DO THIS SO
IF SOMEBODY'S GOING TO
CONSOLIDATE IN A MEANINGFUL
WAY, IT WOULD HELPFUL IF
SOMEONE LOOKING AT THE STAFF
TAKE ALL OF THE COMMENTS, GET
IN AND PULL OUT THE THEMES.
THERE ARE SOME PRETTY SPECIFIC
DETAILED COMMENTS HERE THAT WE
OUGHT TO PROBABLY ACKNOWLEDGE
AT LEAST IF NOT RESPOND TO HOW
IS THAT GOING TO HAPPEN?
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
WE DO CONTINUE TO RECEIVE
EMAILS AND WE ARE SAVING ALL
OF THEM AND THAT IS PROBABLY A
DISCUSSION THAT WE COULD HAVE.
WE'VE HAD CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
WHAT LEVEL DO WE WANT TO
CATALOG ALL OF THOSE COMMENTS
LIKE IN AN APPENDIX OF THE PLAN
OR THAT WE CAN CONTINUE TO DRAW
FROM THEM LIKE WE HAVE HERE?
YOU'LL NOTICE I DON'T KNOW THE
EXACT SPREAD BUT THERE IS A
PAGE HERE THAT WE WILL GET TO
IN CHAPTER THREE.
IT TALKS ABOUT WHAT THE MAJOR
TAKEAWAYS ARE UM, I WOULD SAY
IN MY EXPERIENCE FROM RECEIVING
MOST OF THESE EMAILS I DON'T
THINK NEW BRAND NEW TOPICS ARE
BEING BROUGHT TO US.
I SUSPECT THAT'S TRUE.
I'M GUESSING YOU CAN BOIL A LOT
OF THESE COMMENTS DOWN TO SOME
PRETTY GENERAL SOME PRETTY
IMPORTANT THEMES THAT WE NEED
TO.
BUT IT WOULD BE NICE BEFORE WE
SIGN OFF ON THINGS THAT WE KIND
OF SYSTEM WORK THROUGH THOSE
COMMENTS AND AND HAVE A SENSE
OF WHAT'S THE THRUST OF WHAT
PEOPLE ARE SAYING SO THAT WE
CAN DELIBERATE ON THEM AND I'D
RATHER DO THAT BEFORE WE START
MAKING CHANGES THAN TO MAKE ALL
THESE CHANGES AND THEN JUST PUT
THE COMMENTS IN AN APPENDIX
WITHOUT EVER HAVING REALLY
PROCESSED THEM AND PROBABLY
MUCKING UP YOUR SCHEDULE
ALREADY.
IT'S WHAT WE HAVE DECIDED TO DO
THE DIRECTION THAT YOU ARE
PROPOSING.
SO LET'S GO TO THIS SIDE OF THE
TABLE.
LET IT BE I THINK WAS FIRST IF
YOU WILL MAKE THE DECISION.
>> YEAH.
SO I HAD WRITTEN DOWN I MEAN I
THINK SOME ONE OF THE THINGS I
HEARD ABOUT THE MESSAGES THAT
ARE COMING IN IS LIKE I HAD
BEEN KIND OF KEEPING PRETTY
GOOD TRACK OF WHICH ONES I HAD
READ AND THEN LIKE TODAY WHEN
I'M LOOKING AT IT THERE'S NEW
ONES AND I DON'T KNOW WHICH
ONES ARE NEW AND WHICH ONES ARE
AND I HAVING
LIKE THEY DON'T
COME THEY COME IN MAYBE
ALPHABETICALLY I THINK AND SO
LIKE IT'S HARD TO KNOW WHICH
ONES AND IT'S PAGES AND PAGES
PAGES.
SO IF THEY COULD SOMEHOW BE
SOME INDICATION OF LIKE A ONE,
TWO, THREE OR WHEN THEY COME IN
OR SOMEHOW SO THAT WE KNOW
WHICH ONES COME IN AT ANY POINT
BECAUSE TRYING TO READ THEM ALL
YOU KNOW, I I WORK USUALLY TILL
SIX SO LIKE TRYING TO READ THEM
ALL IN THE NONEXISTENT TIME
BETWEEN THIS MESSAGE IS IS
TRICKY.
SO THAT'S JUST ONE QUESTION BUT
I HAD I HAVE SOME COMMENTS ON
KIND OF THE OVERALL AND I DON'T
KNOW WHERE WE COULD DO ONCE WE
FIGURE OUT HOW WE ARE GOING TO
APPROACH IT TONIGHT.
SO I'LL COME BACK TO YOU.
OK, THAT'S OK.
AND GO TO COMMISSIONER BUSH AND
THEN WE'LL REVISIT THE
PROCEDURE.
I, I JUST I WANTED A
CLARIFICATION BECAUSE I THOUGHT
I HEARD THERE'S AND SAY THAT WE
SHOULD NOT LINE EDIT THAT THIS
IS WE WANT TO FOCUS ON CONTENT
WE DON'T WANT TO FOCUS ON THE
LITTLE BITTY THINGS SO YEAH
THAT'S GOOD.
>> OK SO I HEARD THAT I AGREE
AND SUPPORT THE IDEA THAT SINCE
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'RE HEARING
IS FEEDBACK IS BEING GIVEN BUT
IT'S NOT GOING ANYWHERE I THINK
WOULD BE GOOD.
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S
ACTUALLY CORRECT.
I THINK WE'RE ALL THINKING A
LOT ABOUT THE FEEDBACK THAT
WE'VE RECEIVED.
I THINK THAT ONE OF THE REASONS
THAT COUNCIL PASSED A
RESOLUTION OR WHATEVER.
>> YEAH, A RESOLUTION
REQUESTING REQUESTING PLANNING
COMMISSION THINK THINK AGAIN
ABOUT THE STORY'S QUESTION
THAT'S IN EVIDENCE OF THAT
FEEDBACK IS BEING TAKEN IN AND
BEING THOUGHT OUT.
SO BUT I THINK THAT IF WE I
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
RESPOND.
BUT I HAVE TO SAY THAT WHILE WE
DID HEAR SOME THINGS ABOUT THE
PUBLIC COMMENT PROCESS ABOUT
THE CONCERNS THAT NOT ENOUGH
PEOPLE KNEW AND NOT ENOUGH
PEOPLE HAVE PARTICIPATED, WELL
,WE COULD EASILY GET A
THOUSAND MORE PEOPLE
PARTICIPATING IN THE NEXT
WHATEVER IT IS EIGHT MEETINGS
THAT WE HAVE ON THIS FIRST
DRAFT THAT ARE SCHEDULED RIGHT
NOW.
RIGHT.
SOMEONE THAT WAS A NUMBER THAT
SOMEONE SAID WE NEED A THOUSAND
MORE PEOPLE TO GET INVOLVED OR
WHATEVER.
>> THERE'S MORE THAN ENOUGH
TIME AND THIS IS ONLY THE FIRST
DRAFT.
>> THERE ARE TWO MORE DRAFTS SO
THERE'S A LOT OF PUBLIC COMMENT
TIME OTHER IN THAT A LOT OF THE
COMMENTS ARE FOR CHAPTER FOUR
AND WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
CHAPTER FOUR TONIGHT.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH WE
WANT TO ADDRESS I WANT TO
ADDRESS THE PEOPLE WHO DID THE
READING ASSIGNMENT.
IT TURNED IN THEIR QUESTIONS
AND THE ASSIGNED PAGES.
>> SO FOR MY PART I THINK THE
WAY THAT I WAS THINKING ABOUT
THIS SECTION IS THIS IS THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR US THAT'S THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO GIVE OUR
FEEDBACK WHICH WE HAVE YET
GIVEN AND IT IS THE CASE THAT
THE PUBLIC IS BEING ENGAGED IN
THREE MORE PUBLIC MEETINGS
WHERE THE PUBLIC WILL GIVE
THEIR FEEDBACK WHICH STAFF WILL
SYNTHESIZE AND REPORT BACK OR
AND OR INCORPORATE SO WE ARE
NOT IGNORING ANY PUBLIC COMMENT
.
I READ EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS THAT IS ATTACHED
TO THE AGENDA, INCLUDING THE
MEETINGS THAT I DO NOT ATTEND.
SO I READ ALL 62 OF COMMENTS
AND I AND I WATCHED THE MEETING
AT AND SO I AM I'M NOT FEELING
LIKE I AM NOT HEARING WHAT IS
BEING COMMUNICATED SO FROM MY
POINT OF VIEW I FEEL LIKE THIS
IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO
START TO COMMENT ON THE
DOCUMENT THAT WE ARE SUPPOSED
TO OFFER AND THEN THERE ARE
INPUTS TO THIS PROCESS THAT THE
PUBLIC WILL OFFICIALLY COME
INTO WITH SYNTHESIZE INPUT THAT
YOU WILL SAY HEY, THIS IS WHAT
WE'RE HEARING FROM THE PUBLIC.
THIS IS WHAT YOU ALL SAID.
BUT DISAGREEMENT HOW DO WE MOVE
FORWARD WITH THIS?
AND THEN I THINK THOSE DECISION
POINTS WE WILL CREATE EITHER A
STRAW POLL OR A MOTION TO SAY
HERE'S HOW WE'RE GOING TO
RESOLVE THAT.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT SATISFIES
THE CONCERN THAT YOU INITIALLY
ARTICULATED, BUT THAT WAS SORT
OF HOW I WAS THINKING OF OUR
TIME TONIGHT.
>> I'M FINE WITH THAT AS LONG
AS IT'S CLEAR WE'RE MAKING AN
INITIAL COMMENTS BUT ALL
OF THIS CAN BE REVISITED AND
AND SHOULD BE REVISITED.
IT WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL.
I KNOW IT'S A LITTLE BIT MORE
WORK I'M THINKING ABOUT IN MY
PROFESSIONAL WORK DOING
ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING WE WOULD
GENERATE RESPONSE TO COMMENT
DOCUMENTS THAT WOULD KIND
OF TABULATE ALL THE COMMENTS
THAT WE'RE GETTING BY THEMES SO
THEY WOULD KIND OF GET AWAY
FROM HAVING I MEAN YOU CAN HAVE
ALL THE ORIGINAL COMMENTS BUT
YOU COULD ORGANIZE THEM A
LITTLE BIT TO TO GET A BETTER
SENSE OF WHAT'S COMING IN.
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL AND I KNOW
THAT WE ENDED UP DOING THIS ALL
SIMULTANEOUSLY.
SO IT'S KIND OF EVERYTHING'S
CRUNCHING AT THE SAME TIME.
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL IF IF
SOMEONE COULD SPEND A LITTLE
BIT OF TIME LOOKING AT YOU TO
KIND OF HELP OUT WITH THAT
SYNTHESIS AND TABULATION WHICH
COULD ALSO BE A NICE DOCUMENT
TO PUT AT THE BACK TO.
>> YEAH.
SO I THINK WE CAN WE CAN
REVISIT THAT WHEN WE GET TO
THIS SECTION HERE ABOUT VISION
AND VALUES, THERE IS A HIGH
LEVEL TAKE AWAY FROM EVERYTHING
WE'VE HEARD AT OUR ORGANIZATION
.
>> THOSE ARE RESULTS FROM MORE
OF OUR ORGANIZED ENGAGEMENT.
YOU ARE RIGHT WITH ALL OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENT AND EMAILS THOSE
ARE NOT THOSE HAVE NOT YET BEEN
CATEGORIZED IN THE SAME WAY.
BUT WE CAN MAYBE TALK ABOUT AS
A GROUP IF WE FEEL LIKE WHAT
WE'VE WHAT IS IN THE DOCUMENT
IS REFLECTIVE OF WHAT WE HEARD
AND THEN LIKE UM COMMISSIONER
CHAIRMAN SAID, UH, WE CAN DO
THAT AGAIN WITH THE NEXT ROUND
GET SATISFACTORY FOR EVERYONE
ELSE.
OK ON THE TABLE COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP RIGHT
COMMISSIONER MS.
>> PAGE FOR MY COMMENT STRAIGHT
TO YOU.
YOU WANT TO GO STRAIGHT TO
YOURS SPECIFICALLY SO
COMMISSIONER MILLER SUGGESTED
THAT WE JUST GO PAGE BY PAGE
AND START TO GATHER SO THAT YOU
HAD OVER.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I THINK WE'RE GOING TO START
WITH PAGE BY PAGE AND SEE HOW
THAT FLOWS.
WE CAN DO A FIFTEEN MINUTE
CHECK TO SEE IF THAT'S GOING OK
OR WE WANT TO MAKE AN
ADJUSTMENT.
AND THEN COMMISSIONER, WHETHER
IT BE YOU HAD A I DIDN'T
UNDERSTAND THE NATURE OF YOUR
EARLIER COMMENTS SO IF YOU
COULD EXPLAIN AGAIN BEFORE WE
GET STARTED.
>> SO I JUST HAVE SOME OVERALL
COMMENTS SO NOT RELATED TO
SPECIFICALLY CHAPTERS ONE, TWO
AND THREE BUT THE WHOLE PLAN
WELL SOME YES.
I MEAN YES.
YES.
OK, SO WE'LL JUST LET YOU WE'LL
JUST LET YOU SAY WHAT YOU WANT
TO SAY LIKE THAT'S JUST EASIER
IT'S SO GET INTO IT.
STOP ME AT ANY POINT BECAUSE WE
GIVE OUR THREE MINUTES THIS IS
PERHAPS SO ONE OF THE COMMENTS
WAS COULD WE SCHEDULE WE CAN
PARTICIPATE IN MEETING A
MEETING FOR PARTICIPATION ON
THE WEEKEND NOT JUST IN THE
AFTERNOONS.
THAT WAS A COMMENT THAT CAME IN
IN ONE OF THE EMAILS THAT I
THOUGHT WOULD BE GOOD TO
SURFACE.
I DON'T NEED AN ANSWER.
>> THE NEXT ONE IS THE PLAN
INCLUDING ALL IMAGES ACCESSIBLE
TO PEOPLE WITH VISION ISSUES.
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL TO BE ABLE
TO CLICK ON THE IMAGES AND MAP
TO ZOOM IN OR HAVE THEM
AVAILABLE SEPARATELY BECAUSE WE
PUT IN THINGS LIKE THIS IS THE
FIRST ZONING CODE BUT YOU CAN'T
ACTUALLY READ ANY OF IT OR THIS
IS A MAP OF X AND YOU CAN'T
ACTUALLY READ IT.
SO I JUST KEPT GOING.
YES, ALSO HAVING STREET NAMES
ON THE MAPS.
I'VE ALREADY GOTTEN SOME
COMMENTS FROM PEOPLE LIKE HOW
DO I KNOW WHERE MY STREET IS
AND YOU KNOW WHAT?
HOW DO I KNOW WHAT'S PLAN FOR
ME AND AND I THINK THAT HAVING
SOME SORT OF IDENTIFIER STREET
NAMES ON THE MAPS WOULD BE
HELPFUL PROCESS FOR WHEN AND
HOW THE PLAN WILL BE UPDATED IN
THE FUTURE.
>> SO I REALIZE LIKE WE'RE NOT
THERE EVEN CLOSE YET BUT THAT
THAT'S A QUESTION SO THAT
PEOPLE DON'T THINK THAT THIS IS
JUST WHAT WE HAVE WITH NO
CHANGES FOR FIFTY YEARS
DEFINITION OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SO GENERAL
AFFORDABILITY AND SUBSIDIZED IT
IS HARD TO FIND THE COMP PLAN
ON OUR VARIOUS CITY WEBSITES
SURPRISINGLY HARD IF YOU YOU
CAN'T TYPE COMP COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IN THE ENGAGE IT COMES UP
WITH JUST THE STORMWATER PLANS
YOU HAVE TO TYPE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN OR JUST
COMPREHENSIVE BUT IT DOESN'T
COME UP SO IT'S A LITTLE HARD
AND THE LINK FROM THE IF YOU
TYPE IN IF YOU GOOGLE LIKE AN
AMERICAN REPREHENSIVE PLAN THE
PAGE THAT COMES UP THE LINK TO
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN COMES
BACK TO THAT PAGE AND DOESN'T
ACTUALLY GO TO A SPOT THAT HAS
THE PLAN ANYWHERE AND I HAVE
SOME LINKS ON THAT IF SO LIKE A
TWO GARGASH SLASH COMPREHENSIVE
DASH PLAN DOESN'T HAVE A LINK
IT JUST LEADS BACK TO THAT PAGE
AND GENTLE DENSITY BY
DEFINITION THAT WAS ANOTHER ONE
THAT CAME UP AND THEN SOMETHING
THAT ONE OF THE PUBLIC SPEAKERS
SAID OF JUST THE COMIC SANS AND
THE CARTOON THE FONTS AND THE
CARTOONS DO KIND OF MAKE IT
SEEM SOMEWHAT LESS PROFESSIONAL
OR LESS IMPORTANT AND I DON'T
KNOW IF THAT'S INTENTIONAL.
MAYBE WE WANT THAT.
BUT THAT IS SOMETHING THAT I
HAD ALSO NOTED.
SO THOSE ARE JUST MY LIKE NOT
RELATED TO ANYTHING IN
PARTICULAR.
CUMINS OK.
YES,
WE WILL LET YOU BASICALLY
JUST UNDERSCORING WHAT
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE JUST BUT
IF WE COULD PUT A LINK LIKE
REALLY BOLD ON LIKE THE MAIN
HOMEPAGE BECAUSE EARLIER WHEN
YOU WERE LIKE OH IT'S ON THE
ENGAGE PAGE AND IT'S LIKE I
DON'T KNOW HOW TO GET TO ANY
OF THIS BUT I REMEMBER HOW TO
GET TO TO GO TO SO I DON'T KNOW
IF WE CAN JUST DO LIKE A LINK
LIKE CUPBOARD'S PLAYING DRUB
NOW RELEASED BECAUSE I COULDN'T
FIND IT WHEN I WAS JUST TRYING
TO LIKE CLICK AROUND UNTIL I
WENT TO LIKE PLANNING AND THEN
IT WOULD BE GREAT.
A REALLY BOLD LINK AT THE TOP
OF THAT TOO IF THAT IS AT ALL
POSSIBLE.
>> AND THEN MY OTHER COOL I
ONLY ATTEMPT TO READ LIKE
CHAPTERS ONE THROUGH THREE SO I
GUESS I DID THE ASSIGNMENT GAVE
THERE'S A LOT GOING ON VISUALLY
AND THERE'S JUST LIKE A LOT
OF TEXT AND I DIDN'T I DIDN'T
STRIKE PARAGRAPHS I WASN'T LIKE
SO I'M CURIOUS WHAT YOU STRIKE
BUT I THINK IT NEEDS TO BE
TIGHTENED UP LIKE WHAT YOU
SIGNIFY SOMEHOW AND YOU THINK
THOSE MARKETS THAT ARE
OCCURRING I DON'T KNOW WHAT
IT'S JUST ONLINE I DON'T DIDN'T
WHAT THE CURRENT PLAN IS WHAT
I'D I'D LOVE SOME FEEDBACK ON
THIS.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
TASKS THE CONSULTING WITH AND
IS TO MAKE A DOCUMENT THAT WAS
WIDELY SISAL OUR 2009 NINE PLAN
I WOULD CHARACTERIZE IT WAS AS
ALTECH IT IS PARAGRAPH AFTER
PARAGRAPH AND IF THAT IS THE
DIRECTION YOU WANT THAT'S
FRANKLY MUCH EASIER TO PUT
TOGETHER A DOCUMENT WE WERE
ACTUALLY VERY INTENTIONAL ABOUT
TRYING TO FIND DIFFERENT WAYS
TO COMMUNICATE CONCEPTS TO
PEOPLE SO THAT'S WHERE CARTOONS
AND THEY CALL OUTS AND THOSE
BUT I THAT'S GREAT FEEDBACK FOR
US TO UNDERSTAND IF YOU IF YOU
WANT A MORE TECHNICAL DOCUMENT.
NO, IT'S NOT WHAT I'M SAYING AT
ALL.
OK, BUT YOU KNOW THERE ARE
THERE ARE CARTOONS THERE MAPS
THERE LIKE I THINK THIS WHOLE
LIKE THE AREAS OF THE ENTIRE
GROUP WHICH IS REALLY
INTERESTING.
I WAS LIKE COOL I READ IN
PARAGRAPHS OH HERE'S A TIMELINE
LIKE OH HERE'S ANOTHER IT'S
JUST LIKE IT'S BASICALLY SAYING
THE SAME STUFF AND I DON'T
THINK WE NEED TO SAY THAT FIVE
TIMES THAT IS MY MAIN I WAS
JUST LIKE OH HERE IT IS AGAIN
AND I LIKE TREVIS ONE THREE
THREE.
I REALLY HAVEN'T GOTTEN INTO
ANYTHING SUBSTANTIVE AND IT WAS
40 PAGES SO I JUST I DON'T
THINK A LOT OF IT'S IMPORTANT.
I JUST I DON'T KNOW I THINK
IT'S STILL TOO MUCH TEXT.
I LIKED THAT THERE WERE VISUALS
BUT I I REALLY I DIDN'T LOVE
THE CARTOONS EITHER ACTUALLY I
THINK WE CAN GET TO ALL OF THAT
ON A PAGE BY PAGE.
>> YOU CAN YES.
I DO AS A GENERAL YES.
>> BUT YOU DON'T KNOW.
>> SO ONE THING I DIDN'T SEE IN
CHAPTERS ONE THROUGH THREE THAT
FEELS LIKE IT SHOULD BE THERE
AND IF I MISSED IT I APOLOGIZE
IS THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PART AS A GUIDANCE DOCUMENT AND
AS A VALUES DOCUMENT IS ON PAGE
FIVE?
>> I THINK WE ARE GOING TO WE
HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT THAT
ACTUALLY FOR YOU ALL.
UM, SO I'LL HOLD OFF AND WE CAN
GET TO THAT.
OK, WE'RE GOING TO RECOGNIZE
COMMISSIONER I JUST VERY
BRIEFLY WANT TO UNDERLINE
CONSERVATORY'S QUESTION ABOUT
ACCESSIBILITY.
I THINK THIS IS LIKE DEAL
BREAKER FOR ME.
SO IT'S PROBABLY A QUESTION FOR
THE CONSULTANT BUT ASK THEM TO
PLEASE CONFIRM THAT THEY'RE
USING BEST PRACTICES FOR
ACCESSIBILITY AND I SUSPECT I
KNOW THAT THERE ARE PROBABLY
ASPECTS THAT WILL REQUIRE A
LITTLE BIT OF REVISION BASED ON
THAT.
>> THANKS.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S UM RIGHT.
IF YOU DON'T MIND SCROLLING UP
TO PAGE ONE AND THEN IF YOU
DON'T MIND IF WE'RE WE ARE
GOING TO GO PAGE BY PAGE I'LL
JUST STOP WHERE MY QUESTIONS
ARE.
I HAVE THEM LISTED HERE BY PAGE
AND WE CAN GO THROUGH THEM THAT
WAY.
>> OK, YEAH AND FOR THE
EVERYONE JUST IF YOU WANT TO
TALK YOU CAN MEET AND GO AHEAD
SO I DON'T HAVE TO KEEP TURNING
MY HEAD TO TRY TO RECOGNIZE AND
SO SURE I THAT'S WHAT I WAS
JUST ABOUT TO SAY.
SO IF I FEEL LIKE WE'RE GETTING
OUT OF THE KAWAN I WILL TRY TO
THEN BACK INTO THE COURTROOM
AND I WOULD ASK THAT EVERYONE
THINK THE BEST OF MY ATTEMPTS
TO BRING US BACK INTO THE
COURTROOM AND LEAN IN AS
OPPOSED TO LEANING OUT SAID OK
AND DO YOUR BEST TO TALK ONE AT
A TIME.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
PLANTAR BENNETT OK, WELL I
DON'T HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
SPREAD.
YOU CAN SEE THIS IS INTRODUCING
THE CONCEPT OF A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND SOME OF YOU MAY
RECOGNIZE THESE MATERIALS IF
YOU HAVE ATTENDED OUR SESSIONS
WE HAVE USED VERY SIMILAR
LANGUAGE AND GRAPHICS AT PUBLIC
SESSIONS TO EXPLAIN TO THE
PUBLIC WHAT THE LIMITATIONS
OF A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS.
HOW DOES IT ILUENCE
DEVELOPMENT?
UM, AND YOU CAN SEE HERE
ALREADY, YOU KNOW, ON PAGE TWO
THAT WILL NEED TO BE UPDATED
BUT WE WILL HAVE A TIMELINE
OF THE ENTIRE PROCESS.
>> THE ONLY FEEDBACK I HAVE
IT'S NOT STRONG ENOUGH TO
WARRANT A REVISION BUT IF IT'S
SIMPLE TO DO WHEN THEY WRITE
DOWN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AS
THE GUIDING DOCUMENT, THEY
SPEAK ABOUT ZONING AS A
REGULATORY ORDINANCE ON PAGE
THREE AM I STILL OK?
THEY MENTIONED THAT IT'S
THROUGH THE UNITE THE UDC.
SO SOMEWHERE THAT THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE IS IS SHOWING
UP EARLIER IN HOW THIS ALL
WORKS BECAUSE A LOT OF PEOPLE
HAVE TALKED ABOUT HIGH PLACEMAT
AND SET BACK WHICH DO NOT
USUALLY EXIST IN THE COMPLAN
EXISTS IN THE UDC.
SO JUST INTRODUCING THAT A
LITTLE EARLIER WOULD BE NICE TO
OUR SMALL COMMENTS IN THAT SAME
SANDBOX AS ANY OTHER REGULATORY
AUDIENCE.
I THINK IT WOULD BE WORTH
MENTIONING THAT IT ALSO
REGULATES PROCESS AND LIKE
ENTITLEMENTS THE PROCESS FOR
APPROVING PLANS AND IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE PAGE UNDER THE
CURRENT PLAN DO THE ONE THAT
TALKS ABOUT IT BEING A LIVING
DOCUMENT.
IT SAYS THE CITY WILL REGULARLY
REVIEW PROGRESS MADE AND
DETERMINED UPDATES A BRIEF
MENTION OF HOW THAT HOW THAT
HAPPENS, ONE THAT I THINK WOULD
BE REALLY HELPFUL.
>> THAT'S IT FOR ME.
THANKS.
>> YEAH, I THINK I'D LIKE TO
ALSO THE PAGE NUMBER NUMBERING
TO ME IS TRICKY.
I DIDN'T ACTUALLY SEE THAT THE
SECOND SIDE ACTUALLY WAS A
SEPARATE PAGE.
>> THE FIRST FEW TIMES I LOOKED
AT IT SO THAT IT'S IT'S
ACTUALLY PAGE ONE, PAGE TWO AND
I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS
DESIGNED TO FOLD AT SOME POINT
OR IF THERE IS HOW IT'S SET BUT
I THINK IT'S EASY TO MISS THE
SECOND PAGE UM FOR THIS REVIEW.
>> WE ASKED THEM TO EXPORT IT
AS A SPREAD SO THAT YOU SEE
THEM BOTH SIDE BY SIDE.
UM, BUT I DO THINK SOME PEOPLE
HAVE PRINTED THEM OR WE'RE
LOOKING AT THEM ONE BY ONE BUT
FOR EXAMPLE THIS THE THE PAGE
BEFORE IT WOULD LIKE IT IS
DESIGNED AS A SPREAD UM I DON'T
KNOW IF I'M UNDERSTANDING OR
ANSWERING YOUR QUESTION AT ALL
BUT WE DON'T IT DOESN'T THIS
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE OUR FINAL
PRODUCT.
YEAH I THINK I THINK IT'S
DISORIENTS FOR PEOPLE BECAUSE
THEY WHEN I GOT A LOT
OF FEEDBACK I THOUGHT IT WAS A
HUNDRED AND FORTY NINE PAGES.
IT'S ONLY SEVENTY PAGES.
MR LERNER WAS WRONG ABOUT IT.
I WAS LIKE IT'S BECAUSE IT'S
NOT MY JOB PAGE BUT A LOT
OF PEOPLE DON'T INTERACT WITH
PDF THIS WAY OR DON'T HAVE BIG
ENOUGH SCREENS AND SO THEY'RE
USED TO SINGLE PAGE AND I THINK
THERE COULD JUST BE SOMETHING
TO SAY.
>> THIS VIEW IS BETTER VIEWED,
THIS VIEW IS BETTER PRINTED AND
SO YOU CAN SOLVE THAT PRETTY
EASILY IF I CAN PUT IN THAT BOX
YOU OFTEN HEAR PEOPLE SAY THEIR
PLAN IS A BLUEPRINT.
IT'S NOT A BLUEPRINT THAT MAY
BE A WORD.
>> IT'S SOMEWHERE BETWEEN A
BLUEPRINT AND A BIG SET
OF RECOMMENDATIONS.
UM, THE TRICK IS TO FIND THAT
MIDDLE GROUND I'M A LITTLE BIT
NERVOUS ABOUT SAYING THAT IT'S
REVIEWED REGULARLY AND REVISED
WHEN IT NEEDS TO BE UPDATED
BECAUSE IT'S NOT I MEAN WE
DON'T CHANGE IT EVERY DAY WHEN
SOMEBODY COMES IN WITH
SOMETHING NEW AND WE DECIDE THE
PLAN SHOULD HAVE DONE THIS
INSTEAD.
RIGHT.
WE REVIEW IT EVERY FEW YEARS.
CORRECT.
HE SAYS YOU HAVE TO REVIEW IT
AT LEAST EVERY FIVE YEARS.
>> YOUR BYLAWS SAY YOU HAVE TO
REVIEW IT ANNUALLY, ANNUALLY.
BUT DO WE ADJUST IT AND DO I
MEAN WE THIS IS THE FIRST
CHANGE TO THE PLAN WE'VE MADE
SINCE TWO THOUSAND AND NOTHING,
RIGHT?
>> NO, NO.
SO SO I MEAN THIS YES AND NO.
>> I GUESS THE POINT I'M TRYING
TO MAKE IS IT'S NOT FLUID, IT'S
NOT SET IN STONE BUT IT'S NOT
SO FLUID EITHER.
>> IT'S CONSTANTLY CHANGING.
CAN I ASK A QUESTION HERE?
IS IT ARE WE GOING TO FOOTNOTES
I GUESS THE POSSIBILITY FOR
ADDING FOOTNOTES BECAUSE I
THINK THIS POINT IS IMPORTANT
BECAUSE IT'S NOT GOING TO
CHANGE WITH A LOT REGULARITY
BUT IT DOES CHANGE AND SO IT
COULD THAT BE ACHIEVED IN A
FOOTNOTE WHERE YEAH.
SO I'M TRYING TO DO THAT.
>> I'M SORRY I'M JUST KIND
OF THROWING SOME IDEAS AT YOU
TO CONTEMPLATE AS YOU THERE ARE
FOOTNOTES COMMISSIONER.
>> RIGHT.
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
SO WE COULD FOOTNOTE THAT AND
GET A BETTER DEFINITION THAT
COMPORTS TO WHAT YOU'RE SEEKING
.
>> CAN WE MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
SPRING?
YEAH OK.
UM SO HERE'S WHAT I'LL START
WITH YOUR COMMENTS AND THEN
I'LL ASK MY QUESTION.
>> SURE.
YEAH.
>> YOU'RE FREE SO AND THIS MAY
ANSWER YOUR QUESTION OR PROVIDE
GUIDANCE ON YOUR QUESTION.
I THINK WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT
HERE AND THERE'S OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES TO TALK ABOUT IT
BUT IT FEELS LIKE AN IMPORTANT
GUIDANCE DOCUMENT THAT WE DON'T
MENTION.
IT'S RECENT VERY STRICTLY ON
THE ISSUES THAT WE'RE TACKLING
IN THE PLAN.
IT PROVIDES REALLY IMPORTANT
BACKGROUND AND EMPIRICAL
SUPPORT FOR A NUMBER OF THE
CLAIMS
THAT WE MAKE IN THE PLAN
AND IT FEELS LIKE WE OUGHT TO
PUT IN STARTING HERE AND THEN
USE IT LIBERALLY THROUGHOUT.
>> DO YOU SPECIFICALLY MEAN IN
THIS GREEN CALLOUT BOX WHERE WE
DISCUSS PAST PLANS OR
SEPARATELY SO RIGHT UNDER RIGHT
UNDER OR ABOVE AND OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN I MEAN IT IT
WHEN I WAS READING IT AGAIN OR
SKIMMING IT AGAIN WHEN I WAS
PREPARING FOR THIS MEETING, ITS
RELEVANCE HERE IS REALLY KIND
OF HARD TO OVERSTATE IT.
IT REALLY TACKLES A LOT OF THE
A LOT OF THE ISSUES THAT A LOT
OF THE ISSUES IN THE BACKGROUND
SECTION IN PARTICULAR.
RIGHT HOW WE GOT HERE UM SOME
OF THE VALUES AND POLICY
PRIORITIES THAT WE HAVE AS A
CITY BECAUSE IT WAS RATIFIED BY
THE CITY COUNCIL IT FEELS LIKE
A PRETTY IMPORTANT PIECE
OF GUIDANCE THAT SHOULD BE
GUIDING OUR OUR WORK.
UM, IT ALSO AND WE'LL GET TO
SOME OF THESE OTHER COMMENTS
LATER.
IT DOES IT IS HELPFUL IN OTHER
SECTIONS OF OF THE OF THE PLAN
TO PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR WHAT
WE'RE DOING WITHOUT REDOING AT
WORK OR CREATING SOMETHING FROM
SCRATCH.
>> OK, I HAVE A QUESTION THAT
FEELS A LITTLE SILLY BUT IN THE
GREEN BOX ON PAGE FIVE PASSED
PLANS TO BE REPLACED.
>> THAT'S CLEAR PLANS TO
INCORPORATE AND REPLACE I GUESS
MY QUESTION IS THERE'S A NEW
PLAN TO GO HOLD.
WHAT THEN ISN'T THERE ISN'T
THERE THEN REDUNDANCY IF THOSE
BEEN INCORPORATED INTO THIS
PLAN AND THEY ALSO EXIST AS A
SEPARATE PLAN REDUNDANCY
ALIGNMENT I WOULD PROBABLY USE
THE WORD ALIGNMENT.
>> I GUESS HERE'S MY QUESTION
IF THERE'S DISCREPANCY WHICH
ONE TAKES PRECEDENT?
>> WELL, THROUGHOUT THIS
PROCESS THERE SHOULDN'T BE
DISCREPANCIES.
SO MAYBE I'M JUST NOT A
BELIEVER.
I AM NOT THEY MIGHT AUGMENT OR
COMPLEMENT THE OTHER WORDS USED
INSTEAD OF INCORPORATE RETAIN
PAST PLANS EXISTING EXISTING
THE TREE LINE FINAL STILL BE
INOPERATIVE PLAN RIGHT.
WE'RE NOT REPLACING IT.
WE'RE NOT WE'RE AUGMENTING IT
OR IT'S COMPLEMENTING WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
>> IT'S A COMPONENT OF LIKE
THIS GROUPING OF PLANS THAT
WILL BECOME A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
I DO WANT TO PLUS ONE
COMMISSIONER ADAMS DEVELOPMENT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BRINGING
THAT FORWARD, INTRODUCING IT
AND USING IT AS A BASIS FOR
WHAT WE WILL SEE I THINK IS
SUPER IMPORTANT FOR PEOPLE TO
UNDERSTAND THE CONTEXT AT.
>> MR. HUNTER, SORRY TO YOU
ENVISION THE EIGHT ZERO AND
REFERENCE IN MALI OR ITS
INCLUSION IN THE CONFERENCE
PLAN RESOLUTION SEEMS TO HAVE
AN ADEQUACY I DON'T KNOW.
OK, MEAN THE NUMBER ONE ABOVE.
YEAH I ONLY ADDRESSED THE OTHER
ONE BECAUSE I COULDN'T FIND IT
AND THE REASON I NOTICED THAT
WAS I WAS I CUT THEM BOTH OUT
SO YEAH.
SO YEAH SO UM MY RATIONALE
ORIGINALLY FOR NOT INCLUDING
THOSE WAS THAT ALL THESE OTHER
THINGS ARE PLANS AND PLANS
UNDER STATE LAW HAVE MEANING
THE TWO ZERO LIVING
CARBON NEUTRALITY DOESN'T HAVE
THAT MEETING.
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT
DOES NOT HAVE THAT MEANING THE
CORRESPONDING RESOLUTIONS DO
NOT HAVE THAT MEANING AND
THAT'S WHY I PULLED THEM OUT
TOTALLY.
YOU KNOW, UM WE WILL
INCORPORATE IT BUT THEY TWO
ZERO PLAN I JUST BRING THAT UP.
IT IS REFERENCE THAT WAS
EXPLICITLY IN THAT COUNCIL
RESOLUTION.
UM, MAYBE THAT'S ADEQUATE.
THAT'S REALLY GOOD LOGIC.
MAYBE LET ME EXPLAIN WHY HOW I
WANT TO USE IT AND THAT WILL BE
HELPFUL TO A COMMENT AND MAYBE
THEN YOU CAN FIGURE OUT IF IT
GOES HERE OR ELSEWHERE.
SO WE'VE HEARD UM A LOT
OF FEEDBACK ON CHALLENGING SOME
OF THE STATEMENTS THAT WE MAKE
IN THE PLAN AS IF THEY'RE
SETTLED PROPOSITIONS REGARDING
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
HOUSING SUPPLY AND
AFFORDABILITY.
UM, THAT'S BEEN A COMMON THREAD
AND PUBLIC MEETINGS.
UM, I WAS THINKING ABOUT A WAY
TO MAKE THIS DOCUMENT.
THE DOCUMENT IS AN ADVOCACY
DOCUMENT ON SOME LEVEL IT'S NOT
A BRIEF BUT THERE'S A LOT
OF ADVOCACY IN IT AND WHEN IT
COMES TO THAT THOSE CLAIMS
WE'RE NOT SUPPORTING THEM AT
ANY POINT WE TREAT THEM AS
SETTLED AND AND NOT REALLY
DEBATED MOST OF THE DEBATE
WE'VE HEARD HAS BEEN ON THAT
ISSUE AND WHEN I WAS LOOKING
FOR A SOURCE AN EASY ANSWER TO
THAT THAT REPORT CONTAINS TWO
PARAGRAPHS THAT COULD LITERALLY
BE LIFTED AND DROPPED RIGHT
INTO THIS PLAN AND USED AS A
BASIS FOR SUPPORT FOR THE
PROPOSITION GENERALLY SPEAKING
THAT MADE IT EASIER TO BUILD
DENSE HOUSING OR MORE HOUSING
GENERALLY PUSHES PUSHES IN A
FAVORABLE WAY ON FAVORABILITY
RIGHT.
WITHOUT REINVENTING THE WHEEL.
IT EVEN CITES TWO SCHOLARLY
WORK THAT IS PERSUASIVE AND
I'VE READ SOME OF IT.
IT'S RIGHT ON POINT.
SO THAT'S LITERALLY A CUT AND
PASTE AND WOULD BE VERY
HELPFUL.
>> SO THAT'S IF IT DOESN'T GO
HERE BECAUSE IT'S NOT A
RESOLUTION OR A PLAN THEN MAYBE
GO SOMEWHERE ELSE.
>> BUT I THINK WE CAN USE IT OK
,GLADYS, CAN I ASK MY
QUESTION?
>> OK, UM WE STAFF HAVE TALKED
ABOUT IN THIS ON THIS SPREAD TO
HAVE A SECTION THAT SAYS WHY WE
PLAN WE COULD OF COURSE WRITE
THAT THAT'S PLANNERS BUT WE
WANT TO OPEN IT UP TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IF THERE
ARE SPECIFIC REASONS YOU WOULD
LIKE US TO ADD HERE FOR WHY WE
DEVELOP A COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN.
>> YES.
HOW DIFFERENT WAS THAT?
>> WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO PLAN
?
WELL, WHAT WAS ORIGINALLY HERE
WAS THE STATE STATUTE THAT SAID
WE HAVE TO PLAN WE WANTED TO
ADD BEST PRACTICES HERE AS TO
WHY WE DO UM AND MAYBE WHY IT'S
IMPORTANT DOES COVER THAT.
BUT MY SENSE IS THAT WE NEED
WE'RE TRYING TO FIND A SPACE
BETWEEN KIND OF GENERAL
ACCESSIBILITY BUT ALSO I THINK
WE DON'T WANT IT TO FEEL LIKE A
THIS IS SOMETHING HARSHER THAN
THEY MEAN TO BUT FOR THE SENSE
OF EXPEDIENCY I WAS GOING TO
SAY IT LIKE A CHILDREN'S BOOK
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
DOES THE DOCUMENT NEED TO
EDUCATE PEOPLE ABOUT PLANNING
IN GENERAL?
IS THAT ATWAL OR IS IT SUPPOSED
TO BE A KIND OF ADVOCACY
DOCUMENT AND YOU KNOW, FOR
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT?
SO I BUT I THINK WHEN WE START
GETTING INTO LIKE WHY IS
PLANNING IMPORTANT PERIOD I
START TO WORRY THAT WE'RE
GETTING INTO THE GENERALITIES
AS OPPOSED TO JUST SO BUT I
ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S
IMPORTANT TO KIND OF LAY THE
GROUNDWORK.
SO I'M ACTUALLY INTERESTED TO
HEAR WHAT OTHER PEOPLE THINK
ABOUT THAT.
I HAVE A STRONG FEELING THAT WE
SHOULD TALK ABOUT WHY WE PLAN
BECAUSE AS I HAVE BEEN
ANSWERING A LOT OF EMAILS AND
THINKING FOR MYSELF AND READING
A LOT OF THE SCHOLARSHIP
COMMISSIONER ADAMS JUST
REFERENCED UM I'VE BEEN
THINKING ABOUT THIS WORD
APPEARS IN THE PLAN AND I THINK
IT'S GREAT BUT I'VE BEEN
THINKING ABOUT THE REAL
IMPORTANCE OF HOLISTIC PLANNING
THAT A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS A
COMPREHENSIVE DOCUMENT.
SO YOU ARE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW DIFFERENT PIECES OF A
PUZZLE FIT TOGETHER AND IT IS
REALLY IMPORTANT TO EMPHASIZE
THAT I LOVE THE PHRASE THAT
PLAN IS NOT A CURE.
THERE'S NO CURE ALL FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THERE ARE MANY DIFFERENT
APPROACHES THAT A CITY HAS TO
TAKE ALL OF THEM AND AND WE YOU
WE UNUSUALLY ARE TAKING A LOT
OF THEM BECAUSE WE HAVE TO
MILEAGES NOT EVERYBODY GETS
THEIR RESIDENTS TO GIVE THEM TO
VILLAGES AND SO I BELIEVE THAT
IT IS IMPORTANT TO TALK ABOUT
THE IMPORTANCE OF HOLISTIC
PLANNING VERSUS PIECEMEAL
REACTIVE.
THIS IS NOT THE LANGUAGE THAT I
WOULD USE BUT VERSUS PIECEMEAL
REACTIVE ADOPTION OF THINGS
THAT DEVELOPERS BRING FORWARD
THAT IS NOT THE WAY TO PLAN.
AND SO WHY WE PLAN IS BECAUSE
IT'S HOLISTIC AND IT'S PIECES
OF A SYSTEM AND IT'S LOOKING AT
THE VARIOUS WAYS IN WHICH ONE
APPROACHES A PROBLEM.
YOU KNOW.
>> SO AND IN TERMS OF I REALLY
WANT TO STRONGLY SUPPORT WHAT
COMMISSIONER I WAS SAYING, I
DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHERE THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT
SHOULD FIT.
I THINK IF PASSED PLANS WANT TO
GO ON ANOTHER PAGE BECAUSE THEY
ARE PLANS THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT WASN'T BUT
IT KIND OF HAS A SIMILAR STATUS
TO A LITTLE BIT SIMILAR TO THE
ANN ARBOR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
RESOLUTION IN THAT THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT WAS
COMMISSIONED BY COUNCIL
PRODUCED WITH COMMUNITY
PARTNERS AND ADOPTED THROUGH A
SERIES OF RESOLUTIONS THAT
WE'VE BEEN WRESTLING WITH ON
THIS BODY AND OTHER PARTS
OF THE CITY ARE WRESTLING WITH
AS WELL.
SO THERE ARE SOME REALLY
IMPORTANT THINGS IN THERE AND
PLACEMAKING IS HUGE AND THE
DISCUSSION OF AFFORDABILITY
SCHOLARSHIP WHICH MIGHT EVEN
WANT A PAGE LOOK, THESE ARE
SOME TENETS FROM FROM
SCHOLARSHIP AND I WOULD BE
HAPPY TO, YOU KNOW, WORK ON
THAT WITH OTHERS ON THIS BOARD.
CAN I I'M THIS IS BACK TO YOUR
QUESTION SO IF YOU WANT TO
FOLLOW UP ON THAT, I WANT TO
ANSWER YOUR QUESTION.
I WANT TO GO BACK TO YOUR
QUESTION.
>> WELL, I WAS TO SAY BOTH
COMMISSIONERS ARE BRINGING UP
GOOD POINTS IN THINKING ABOUT
WHO THE AUDIENCE THIS DOCUMENT
IS.
UM, SO I DON'T THINK WE
EXPLICITLY ASKED FOR GRAPHICS
OR CARTOONS BUT FOR EXAMPLE, I
THINK WE SAID OUR AUDIENCE IS
GOING TO BE THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
>> UM, AND THAT'S WHY YOU MIGHT
SEE IN SOME AREAS IT IS
REPETITIVE THAT IS BY DESIGN
BECAUSE WE DON'T EXPECT THE
PUBLIC TO READ ONE HUNDRED AND
FORTY TWO PAGES FRONT TO BACK
AND THAT'S WHY THERE ARE
CARTOONS BUT IT IS UP FOR YOU
ALL TO DECIDE IS IS THIS
DOCUMENT MEANT TO BE READ BY
THE GENERAL PUBLIC?
IS IT MEANT FOR DEVELOPERS?
IS IT MEANT FOR PLANNING STAFF
THAT MIGHT DIRECT SOMEWHAT
OF WHAT LEVEL OF DETAIL WE GET
INTO FOR EXAMPLE OF UM WHY WE
PLAN?
SO THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING TO
CONSIDER
AS WELL AS YOUR
GENERAL WHO IS YOUR AUDIENCE.
>> SO I THINK THAT UM I THINK
IT'S A GOOD POINT WOULD LIKE ON
THE PREVIOUS CREDITS WHAT CAN
THE PLAN DO LIKE I THINK MAYBE
PART OF PART OF THE TAKE AWAY
IS MAKING YOU MAYBE WE JUST
INCREASE THE SCOPE OF THAT A
LITTLE BIT THERE RATHER THAN
WHY IS IT IMPORTANT AND THEN
WHY DO WE PLAN TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE'RE COMPREHENSIVELY
ANSWERING THAT QUESTION IN ONE
PLACE FOR WHICHEVER AUDIENCE IS
GOOD THAT SUGGESTS IF YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE A WHY ARE WE
PLANNING IT WOULDN'T IT WOULD
GO ON PAGES.
IT WOULD START ARE WE PLANNING
TO SUPPORT DELIBERATIVE
DECISION MAKING AND BECAUSE WE
HAVE TO UNDER STATE LAW AND
THERE'S NO REASON TO HIDE THAT
AND WE DO AND TO EXPLAIN A
LITTLE BIT THE INSTITUTIONAL
ROLE THAT THE NPA IS SET UP
DOESN'T NEED TO BE DETAILED.
I THINK IF YOU DO THAT FIRST
THEN THAT LEADS INTO WHAT IS
THE PLAN THAT GETS PRODUCED AND
WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
SO I WOULD PUT IT UP JUST LIKE
THE COMMENT THAT UM EVERYONE
THAT I HAVE TALKED TO KNOWS THE
DESIGN OF THE PLAN, THE COLORS,
THE LAYOUT, THE CARTOONS, THE
ACCESSIBILITY.
>> MY DAUGHTER HAS A FORM
OF STENNESS WHERE SHE, UH,
COLORS ARE ATTACHED TO FEELINGS
AND SO SHE REALLY LOVED THE
PLAN AND IT WAS VERY ACCESSIBLE
FOR HER BECAUSE IT WASN'T WALLS
ATTACKS AND SO SHE COULD SCAN
IT AND GLEAN INFORMATION AND
THEN COULD ASK FOR THE
QUESTIONS.
>> SO I DO WANT TO GIVE THAT
FEEDBACK AS WE'RE MAKING OUR
THERE WILL BE THINGS ABOUT THIS
WAY AND SOME PEOPLE WE LIKE AND
THAT WILL BE EXACTLY IS
ANYTHING THAT OTHER PEOPLE
REALLY DON'T LIKE.
I'M GOING TO I'M GOING TO
DIFFER WITH MY COLLEAGUES ARE A
LITTLE BIT I DON'T I DO THINK
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO JUST READ
PIECES OF THIS.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO READ IT
FROM START TO FINISH LIKE IT'S
A NOVEL.
SO BEING A LITTLE REPETITIVE OR
PRESENTING THINGS IN DIFFERENT
WAYS THAT WILL RESONATE WITH
DIFFERENT PEOPLE, I DON'T THINK
THAT'S NECESSARILY A BAD THING.
SO HAVING THE TIMELINE AFTER A
TEXT EXPLANATION JUST STRUCK ME
AS A DIFFERENT WAY TO PRESENT
IT THAT I'LL GRAB PEOPLE
DIFFERENTLY.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME I
RECOGNIZE YOU DON'T NEED TO
LIKE STRETCH IT OUT AND MAKE IT
WAY MORE LONGER AND COMPLICATED
THAN IT NEEDS THE TIMELINE.
AND THEN THERE WAS ANOTHER
THING.
YEAH.
SO SO I JUST WANT TO DO A TIME
CHECK.
YEAH WE ON PAGE FIVE WE HAVE
BEEN TALKING FOR FIFTEEN
MINUTES SO YEAH WE HAVE THIRTY
FIVE PAGES TO GO TONIGHT WE CAN
SEND OTHER COMMENTS TO YOU
AFTER WRITE LIKE I MEAN BECAUSE
I WAS GOING TO SAY SOMETHING
ELSE BUT I CAN DO THIS VERY
MINOR I CAN JUST YOU CAN SIT
NEXT TO US BUT I WOULD JUST
GIVE US THE DISCRETION THAT IF
WE SEE SOMETHING IN THERE THAT
WE THINK WARRANTS A BIGGER
CONVERSATION WE'RE GOING TO
RAISE IT BECAUSE WE NEED TO
BRING IT BACK TO THE PUBLIC SO
IT CAN GO ON TO I THINK I CUT
OFF COMMISSIONER MILLS QUITE A
WHILE AGO.
>> YES.
SORRY IT WAS COVERED OK.
>> OH GREAT.
NOW LET'S LET'S KEEP GOING KEEP
GOING.
YEAH.
SO WHEN IF I'M GOING TO I'LL
JUST POP IN HERE ON PAGE SIX
SIX AND SEVEN THIS IS ONE
OF THOSE SITUATIONS WHERE THE
PREVIOUS PAGE WE SAID PAST PAST
PLANS TO INCORPORATE AND WE
HAVE THREE OF THEM AND THEN ON
THIS PAGE WE HAVE THOSE THREE
AND THEN WE HAVE IN LIKE GRADE
EIGHT TO ZERO CARBON NEUTRALITY
PLAN AND I DON'T UNDERSTAND
THAT.
>> YEAH, IT'S LIKE LIKE IT'S
FINE TO HAVE IT IN TWO
DIFFERENT WAYS BUT HAVING
DIFFERENT INFORMATION IN TWO
DIFFERENT WAYS IS CONFUSING.
AND WHAT'S THE FOURTH THING
WHAT'S THE FOURTH THING.
>> YEAH.
THAT NEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
YOU NOTICE THEY REMOVED THE
WORDS BUT NOT THE THE LINE.
SO WE WILL HAVE THAT CORRECTED.
>> UM I THINK WHAT THIS SPREAD
IS TRYING TO DO AND IT IS
REPEATING SOME INFORMATION BUT
YOU CAN SEE ALL THE VALUES
THERE ARE LISTED FOR EACH
OF THOSE PLANS AND IS TRYING TO
SHOW AGAIN IN THIS BOX RELEVANT
THEMES FROM OTHER PLANS HOW WE
ARE SHOWING OUR WORK FOR THE
FACT THAT WE HAVE READ OUR OWN
PLANS AND THAT WE ARE TRYING TO
ALIGN WITH THEM AND THAT OUR
VALUES ARE SPREAD ACROSS
MULTIPLE DOCUMENTS IF IT'S NOT
CLEAR WE CAN MAKE IT CLEAR WE
CAN MAKE THE DIFFERENT PLANS
THAT THE TITLE MAYBE.
>> WELL, I MEAN I THINK IT'S
CLEAR WHEN YOU HAVE THE BLUE
CONTINUITY MINIMIZE BUT WHAT'S
CONFUSING IS THAT THAT IS PLANS
SHOWS UP AND IT DOESN'T HAVE
ANY OF THOSE YET EITHER.
OK, I THINK THAT'S WHAT MAKES
IT CONFUSING TO ME AND THAT IT
WASN'T ON THE PREVIOUS THE ONE
ON THE PREVIOUS PAGE AND IF
YOU'RE GOING TO ADD IN THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT AND
WANT TO PULL THINGS OUT OF HERE
LIKE THAT, IT FEELS LIKE THAT'S
WHERE IT WANTS TO BE.
AND IT FELT TO ME LIKE OH THIS
IS WHY IT'S LIKE GRAY IN THE
TEXT OF THE NAME BUT IT I KNEW
IT TOOK A LOT OF MENTAL EFFORT
THAT WAS YEAH.
ACTUALLY WHAT I THINK ACTUALLY
BE EASY YOU WOULD GET RID OF IT
THAT THIS IS TOO IN THE WAY YOU
GUYS WANT TELL ME TO STOP YOU
WOULD GET RID OF IT THERE
BECAUSE IT'S NOT ACTUALLY ENDED
UP TO PLAN RIGHT IN LINE WITH
WHAT YOU HAVE THIS BOX DOWN
BELOW RELEVANT THEMES, OTHER
RELEVANT THEMES FROM OTHER
IMPORTANT CITY ADAPTED
DOCUMENTS OR SOMETHING LIKE YOU
COULD THERE ARE THINGS IN THERE
AND TAKE IT OUT OF THE
HIERARCHY WITH THESE OTHER
OFFICIAL PLANS I THOSE OTHER
PLANS OTHER THAN THE ONES THAT
ARE LISTED ON THIS PAGE OR THE
OR THESE THE OTHER PLANS THAT
THE THEMES ARE RELEVANT TO
THESE ARE FROM THOSE OTHER
PLANS FROM THE OTHER PLANS LIKE
DRILLING AND MOVING TOGETHER.
>> YEAH OK I I READ IT I LIKE
HIGH LEVEL I READ IT THEN I
READ IT BECAUSE AS YOU WERE
SAYING THAT TO MOVE IT OVER
THEN I WAS LIKE WAIT ARE THESE
OTHER PLANS THESE ARE THE PLANS
OR ARE THEY OTHER PLANS.
>> RIGHT SORRY THEY'LL CLARIFY
.
I THINK OUR DIRECTION ON THIS
IS TO MAKE THIS TO STREAMLINE
THIS MAKE IT SIMPLER.
THE GRAPHIC AND MAYBE
REARRANGING THE CONTENT TO BE
CLEAR BUT NOT NECESSARILY
REMOVING IT.
IS THAT CORRECT?
OK, NEXT BOOK A HISTORY
OF ENDEAVOR AND ITS
DEVELOPMENT.
SO WE HAVE NOTED FROM
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE THIS
MIGHT BE AN EXAMPLE OF A MAP
THAT MEANS STREET NAMES.
>> SORRY, SORRY STREET NAMES
SORRY WE'RE GOING TO DO I
IMAGINE MAJOR CHORD.
>> YEAH YEAH.
JUST SORT YEP.
>> CAN YOU DO DATE ON PAGE
EIGHT LIKE IT IS ON THE MAP
LIKE 1874 OR IS ONE OF MY
COMMENTS TO IS THE DATES DON'T
SHOW UP ON THE LEFT SO MAYBE WE
CAN TALK ABOUT THESE NEXT THREE
TOGETHER BECAUSE THEY'RE ALL
TIMELINE RELATED AND PHASES
OF THE CITY SO WE CAN DISCUSS
IF YOU ALL THINK SOME OF THESE
ARE REDUNDANT.
>> SO I DON'T THINK THEY'RE
REDUNDANT.
I THINK THEY'RE VERY IMPORTANT.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO SAY PAGE
TEN ELEVEN PROBABLY WAS ONE
OF THE MOST IMPORTANT THINGS IN
THIS SECTION ELEVEN.
YEAH, BECAUSE IT SHOWS WHERE
THE GROWTH OF THE CITY STARTS
TO GET CONSTRAINED AND THAT IS
FROM POLICIES THAT START IN
NINETEEN SEVENTIES AND AND
CONSTRAIN THE CITY FOR A WHOLE
FIFTY YEARS.
I CONCUR AND I JUST I JUST
THOUGHT THIS THIS IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING TO EXPLAIN TO
PEOPLE WHY WE PLAN.
I'LL CONFESS THAT IT TOOK ME A
MINUTE TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
HAPPENED LIKE WHY THINGS WERE
SPREAD UP AND DOWN ON THE PAGE
LIKE YEAH BUT THEN AND THEN I
SAW THAT IT WAS A FORMAT THAT I
WAS VIEWING IT IN SO I COULDN'T
SEE THE RED AND BLUE TO THE FAR
RIGHT FROM THE GET GO OK AND SO
BUT AGAIN I DON'T THINK THOUGH
THAT I'M THE ONLY PERSON THAT'S
GOING TO VIEW ON A LAPTOP LIKE
THIS AND SO THAT MIGHT GET CUT
OFF BUT I LOVE THIS.
>> OK, I'M HEARING POSITIVE
OPINIONS ABOUT THIS BUT IF WE
GO TO THE NEXT SPRING WE THINK
HAVING IT LAID OUT AGAIN LIKE
THIS IS REDUNDANT OR
WORTHWHILE.
I LIKE THE IMAGES.
I LIKE THE IMAGES BUT AGAIN I'D
LIKE THEM TO BE ABLE TO BLOW
THEM UP OR SOMEHOW SEE ABOUT
THEM.
>> I AGREE I WANTED MY FIRST
COMMENT ACTUALLY I WANT
HYPERLINKS TO WHERE THIS IS IN
THE OF NEWS OR ADL ARCHIVES
BECAUSE NOT IN PARTICULAR LIKE
I'M A NERD SO I KNOW ABOUT THE
PACKARD BEEKS BYPASS BUT I FEEL
LIKE MAYBE PEOPLE WILL NOT AND
I WANT PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
HYPER CLICK OH YOU MEAN SO
SPECIFICALLY WITH THE IMAGE
SOURCES THAT IS NOT NECESSARILY
THE IMAGE.
I THOUGHT THERE WERE A LOT
OF THE THINGS THAT WERE LIKE
THE HISTORY OF THE I DON'T
BECAUSE I GUESS ON PAGE
THIRTEEN NINETEEN SEVENTIES
THAT'S THE PACARD BYPASS AND
THERE'S ANOTHER NEWS ARTICLE
THAT LINKS TO THAT AND I THINK
YOU HAVE A SCREENSHOT OF IT
LATER YOU DO ON PAGE TWENTY
ONE.
OK, SO IT'S SORT OF JUST GOING
TO BE A DETAIL ARCHIVE FOR THAT
WHICH WOULD MAKE THIS REALLY
NICE TO EDUCATE PEOPLE AND FOR
MULTIPLE LIKE MULTIPLE POINTS
IN OUR HISTORY.
I MEAN OUR LIBRARY HAS IT
ANYWAY FEELS LIKE A MISSED
OPPORTUNITY.
YEAH.
AND LIKE THE FIRST ZONING MAP
BUT IT'S JUST TINY LITTLE LINES
.
IT'D BE HELPFUL TO KNOW WHAT
THAT ACTUALLY WAS WHAT IT SAID.
>> OK, SO I'M HEARING YOU
MAKE
IMAGES BIGGER WHERE POSSIBLE
JUST HIGHER AND ADD HYPERLINKS
TO IMAGES NEED TO BE BIGGER IN
THE DOCUMENT BUT THAT THEY
COULD BE ENLARGED TO LOOK AT A
BIGGER, CLEARER VERSION OF THAT
HIGHER RESOLUTION TICKET TO
ZOOM IN.
YEAH, SO THAT YOU COULD ZOOM IN
OR YOU COULD CLICK ON A LINK TO
A LARGER RESOLUTION OR THE
ACTUAL DOCUMENT OR IF YOU COULD
IF IF THEY CAN'T IMPROVE THE
RESOLUTION INSIDE THE PDF OR
THE DOCUMENT ITSELF CLICK OUT
TO A HIGHER RESOLUTION, I THINK
THAT WOULD ACHIEVE THE GOAL.
>> OK, ON PAGES 10 AND 11 UH I
HAD A QUESTION ABOUT THE USE
OF THE TERM EXCLUSIONARY
ZONING.
>> I'M NOT OPPOSED TO THE USE
OF THE TERM BUT IT ISN'T
DEFINED AND I HAVE HAD A COUPLE
OF CONVERSATIONS WITH RESIDENTS
ABOUT WELL ALL ZONING IS
EXCLUSIONARY WHICH ISN'T WRONG.
AND SO WE ARE BUT WHAT WE MEAN
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING IS IF IT'S
AN INTENTIONAL TARGETING
OF POPULATIONS, NOT JUST USES I
MEAN RIGHT.
>> CORRECT.
I MEAN THAT'S THE HISTORY
OF ZONING.
>> WELL, OK THEN WHY DO WE TALK
ABOUT THE FIRST ZONING CODE AND
WE DON'T CALL IT EXCLUSIONARY
BUT WE SAY EXCLUSIONARY ZONING
IS INTRODUCED IN 1957 WHEN YOU
INTRODUCE SINGLE FAMILY
DISTRICTS AND YOU ACTUALLY
CREATE A FORM OF YOU CREATE A
PATTERN OF EXCLUSION
OF EXCLUSIONS THAT CREATES
VALUE FOR SOME PEOPLE AT THE
EXPENSE OF DENYING VALUE FOR
OTHER PEOPLE THE VALUE THAT IS
POSSIBLE IN THE SINGLE FAMILY
ZONES DEPENDS ON UNWANTED USE
AS BEING PROXIMA TO
MULTIFAMILY, ET CETERA, ET
CETERA.
I MEAN THAT'S A HUGE AMOUNT
OF ARGUMENT.
>> WE ARE NOT GOING TO WRITE
THAT TO THIS SPEED OF TO
EXPLAIN BECAUSE THERE'S AMPLE
HISTORY ABOUT THIS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
BUT WHAT I'M SAYING IS THAT IT
READS STRANGELY TO BE TOLD THAT
A FIRST A ZONING CODE WITH MORE
ZONING DISTRICTS AND THEN AN
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING WAS
INTRODUCED AND IT'S SORT
OF DEFINED WHAT WE MEAN BY
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING IS SORT
OF DEFINED HERE WITH SINGLE
FAMILY ORDINANCE RESTRICTIONS
ON TENANTS.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
A PERSON WHO HASN'T READ.
THAT'S NOT A GOOD THAT ISN'T A
STRAIGHTFORWARD DEFINITION
OF WHAT WE MEAN BY EXCLUSIONARY
ZONING BUT THAT IF I DON'T WANT
TO GET INTO A BACK AND FORTH
WITH YOU BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
I DISAGREE WITH WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING I'M JUST ENGAGING YOU.
>> YES.
OK, YEAH.
SO ISN'T THIS THE PLACE WHERE
IT'S INTRODUCED INTO OUR ZONING
SO PRIOR TO TO BECAUSE YOU DID
A BIG CHART OF THE SIZE OF THE
ZONING DOCUMENT AND SO IT IS
HERE THAT THIS ACTUALLY GETS
CODIFIED INTO ZONING IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR BECAUSE THE
UDC GROWS AT THIS POINT IT'S
LIKE ALMOST 100 PAGES RIGHT NOW
AT 1957 OR 1963 BECAUSE 1963
I'M NOT GOING TO ANSWER THAT.
I WAS GOING TO SAY THERE OR
SOMEWHERE IN HERE THAT DID IT
LIKE QUADRUPLES IN SIZE.
IT GOES FROM LIKE TWENTY TWO
PAGES TO OVER A HUNDRED AND
THEN IT KEEPS GROWING THROUGH
THE 70S AND I CAN I CAN SEE IT
ON THE TABLE THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING TO ADDRESS AND MAKE
YOU SOMETHING TO CLARIFY ON
THAT THAT WE MAY NEED A
DEFINITION SECTION OR SOMETHING
OR WE JUST MAY NEED TO CLEAN UP
THE LANGUAGE HERE EXCLUSIONARY
ZONING THAT DOES THE FOLLOWING
LIKE IN CONTRA TO THE FIRST
ZONING CODE WHICH HAD FOUR
ZONING DISTRICTS AND I WOULD
LOVE TO KNOW WHAT THOSE WERE.
>> WHAT WAS THE KEY DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THE FIRST ZONING
AUDIENCE IN THAT NINETEEN FIFTY
SEVEN VERSION WAS THAT WHERE
SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED FORMS
WERE FIRST THERE RESTRICTED TO
THAT USE?
>> IS THAT WHAT HAPPENED?
I THINK ANSWERING THE QUESTION
RIGHT NOW WE'RE NOT GOING OUT
THE QUESTION TO BE ANSWERED
MORE CLARITY AND THEN YEAH THE
NEXT REPORT HOPEFULLY WE'LL SEE
MORE CLARITY.
CAN I ALSO SAY I'M NOT REALLY
SURE I'M FOLLOWING BY THE I
LIKE THE DIAGRAM AND CONCEPT I
DON'T REALLY GET WHY THE
DIFFERENT HASHES FLOAT UP AND
DOWN LIKE WHY IS NINETEEN
TWENTY ONE AT NINETY NINETY
FIVE K IS THERE SOME REASON
HORIZONTALLY WHERE IS THE
POPULATION.
>> NO IT'S JUST THE RIGHT AND
BELOW RIGHT WELL IT'S JUST IT'S
JUST KIND OF HOW MANY SITTING
THERE IT'S JUST DISTRIBUTING
THEM SO YOU CAN READ THEM.
YEAH IT'S JUST PUTTING THEM ON
THE TIMELINE YOU CAN SEE THEM
HERE ALSO IT'S COLOR CODED ON
THE RIGHT THERE'S A DIFFERENT
AXIS I GET THE COLOR CODING I
WAS JUST I WAS TRYING TO DECIDE
IS THERE SOME MEANING TO WHERE
IT'S ACTUALLY SITTING ON THE
PAGE THAT'S RELATIVE TO THE
POPULATION IS THE MEANING THE X
AXIS NOT THE Y?
>> YEAH.
THAT ALSO HAD ME FOR TOO LONG.
>> I HAVE TO THINGS THAT I'D
LIKE TO PUT ON THE TABLE TO SEE
IF WE WANT TO ADD TO THAT
TIMELINE WHICH IS NINETEEN
SEVENTY EIGHT THE HADLEY
AMENDMENT AND NINETEEN NINETY
FOUR PROPOSAL BECAUSE I THINK
THOSE HAVE HAD IMPLICATIONS FOR
HOUSING AND INFRASTRUCTURE AND
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THAT
UP BECAUSE MY QUESTION FOR YOU
WAS DO YOU THINK THERE ARE ANY
MAJOR HISTORICAL EVENTS MISSING
THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEE
ADDED TO THIS?
>> I DID READ YOUR DOCUMENTS SO
I THINK I WAS WELL AWARE I I
WAS THE ONE THAT IS HAVING THE
MOST TROUBLE WITH THESE AND
THINKING THAT IT'S WAY TOO MUCH
STUFF AND I'M JUST GOING TO GO
THROUGH MY THOUGHT PROCESS
OF WHY.
SO I'M READING EIGHT TO NINE
AND I WAS LIKE THIS IS REALLY
INTERESTING.
THIS IS COOL.
THIS IS LIKE ONE LITTLE
PARAGRAPH ABOUT EACH I'M
LEARNING SOMETHING.
>> THIS IS GREAT.
AND THEN I WENT TO PAGES TEN
ELEVEN AND I WAS LIKE OK.
I WAS LIKE ALL THIS BREAKING IT
DOWN.
IT'S LIKE GIVING ME SOME MORE
STUFF AND THEN BY OVER DENHA I
WAS LIKE IS IS DIFFERENT IS IT
THE SAME STUFF AND IT LOOKS
LIKE LOOKING I DID THEN I JUST
KEPT GOING AT THAT POINT IT'S
LIKE SOME SORT OF OVERLAPS AND
SOME STUFF DOESN'T I DON'T KNOW
IF IT'S POSSIBLE LIKE I DON'T
WANT TO ADD MORE TEXT BUT TO
ADD MORE TEXT EXPLAINING HOW IS
10 TO 11 DIFFERENT FROM 12 TO
13 AND MAYBE 12 13 NEEDS TO GO
ABOVE 10 TO 11 BECAUSE FEELS
LIKE THE AIR IS BEING CLOSER
MATCHES WITH ON PAGE EIGHT.
SO WE'RE GOING TO KEEP THEM ALL
WHICH IS FINE.
I JUST LIKE A LITTLE BIT AND I
JUST LOOKING AT THINGS VISUALLY
GRAPHICALLY DIFFERENT OR IS IT
SHOWING ME DIFFERENT STUFF
BECAUSE THAT'S WHEN I GOT THE
TWELVE THIRTEEN I WAS JUST LIKE
I'M TIRED OF READING ABOUT THIS
NOW THIS WAS INTERESTING BUT I
TO KEEP MOVING ON AND WOULD
YOUR PREFERENCE BE THAT ON THIS
NEW SPREAD EVERYTHING THAT'S
INTRODUCED HERE IS NEW?
IT'S NOT A REPEAT OF THE
PREVIOUS TIMELINE OR WORDS.
>> NO I MEAN I JUST IT JUST
GETS REPETITIVE.
>> I DON'T SEE A POINT TO IT.
SO I MEAN IF WE CAN JUST
EXPLAIN IF IT'S I MEAN IS IT
DIFFERENT SORT OF DIFFERENT
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE PAGE TEN AND
ELEVEN IS A COMBINING A LOT
OF STUFF AND LITERALLY BETWEEN
IS A TIMELINE.
SO MAYBE THIS IS JUST THE ORDER
CHANGES.
MAYBE THAT'S BETTER AND THERE'S
A SENTENCE THAT'S LIKE
EXPANDING ON LIKE SOMETHING
LIKE HERE'S SOME MORE I DON'T
KNOW BUT I JUST WHAT THIS WAS
LIKE WHAT WOULD HELP YOU TO
UNDERSTAND THAT PAGE NINE IS
THIS HISTORY RELATIVE TO LAND
USE AS A MAP THEN THIS STUFF
RELATIVE TO POPULATION GROWTH
WHICH IS A TOTALLY DIFFERENT
WAY TO THINK ABOUT IT AND THEN
THE THIRTEEN IS ACTUALLY JUST
MORE DETAILED AND SO A LOT
OF THINGS IN THERE THAT EXIST
ON THE OTHER TWO AND YOU GET
PICTURE IMAGES MAYBE MAYBE IT'S
JUST LIKE A SENTENCE LIKE KIND
OF LIKE WHAT YOU JUST SAID.
YEAH.
IF WE CAN IF IT WAS BUT ALSO
ISN'T IT OK FOR YOU TO DO THE
REPEATING AND THEN YOU MOVE ON
.
>> YEAH BUT I MEAN THERE THEY
ARE IMPORTANT AND SO BUT YEAH
IT WAS JUST LIKE DO I NEED TO
READ THIS AGAIN.
>> YEAH MY GUESS IS THAT THEY
WANTED TO INCLUDE THESE IMAGES
THAT THEY COULDN'T FIT ON THE
TIMELINE AND I WILL I HAVE A
NOTE HERE HOW ARE THESE
DIFFERENT AT A SENTENCE TO THE
TOP OF TWELVE PAGE TWELVE TO
LIKE HOW TO VIEW THESE TWO
DIFFERENT TIMELINES AND THIS IS
SORT OF THIS SORT SPARKED MY
INITIAL COMMENT.
I WAS LIKE THIS JUST HAS A LOT
GOING ON IN THERE BECAUSE I WAS
LIKE OH MY GOD, I'M STILL IN
CHAPTER ONE AND LIKE I HAVE WE
HAVEN'T EVEN TALKED ABOUT LIKE
WHERE'S WHERE'S THE LIKE I JUST
LIKE THIS IS IT.
YES.
I JUST I WAS LIKE WE'RE
TRAPPED.
WE'RE GOING TO GET TO THAT.
WE'RE GOING TO SPEND A LOT
OF TIME TALKING ABOUT CHAPTERS
FOUR, FIVE AND SIX.
YEAH, BUT I'M UP ON THE PLAN
AND WE'RE STILL TALKING ABOUT
THE HISTORY OF LIKE SIX PAGES.
>> IT JUST FELT LIKE IT NEEDED
TO MOVE ALONG A LITTLE BIT
FASTER TO ME.
>> CAN I ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
ALSO ABOUT HISTORICAL EVENTS?
YEAH.
SO I WOULD LIKE UNDER A
RETHINKING OF INFRASTRUCTURE
AND HOW THE CITY DEVELOPS.
I WOULD LIKE THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING VILLAGE AND THE CLIMATE
VILLAGE TO BE ON THAT TIMELINE
WHETHER MISSING THINGS IT SHOWS
THE CREATION OF THE OLD WEST
SIDE.
BUT THERE ARE NOW FIFTEEN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS RIGHT NOW.
I DON'T KNOW THAT YOU NEED TO
IDENTIFY ALL 15 OF THEM BUT IF
SOME OF THEM HAPPENED IN CLUMPS
YOU MIGHT I WOULDN'T WANT THIS
TO SUGGEST THAT THE OLD WEST
SIDE IS THE ONLY HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
RIGHT.
AND THINGS LIKE PRESERVING THE
MICHIGAN THEATER WHICH ACTUALLY
WAS OH THAT'S MORMON AND THE
CITY COUNCIL ACTUALLY ACTED ON
THAT TO PRESERVE IT.
AND I DON'T KNOW IF WE YOU KNOW
WHAT THINGS ARE IMPORTANT OR
WHAT THINGS AREN'T IMPORTANT.
>> THAT'S THE THING.
WHERE DO YOU STOP?
YEAH, I MEAN THE OTHER ANOTHER
ONE WOULD BE LIKE THE FIRST
SUBURBAN HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
LIKE YOU KNOW BUT THERE'S A LOT
OF THINGS I DON'T KNOW WHETHER
IT'S A LOT OF DISCUSSION ABOUT
WHAT ROLE WILL THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS PLAY IN ALL OF THIS?
I THINK IT'S WORTH NOTING WHEN
THEY WERE CREATED IN SOME
FASHION.
YEP, I HAVE THAT AND IT MIGHT
BE WORTH NOTING BUT I'M NOT
FULLY CONVINCED OF THIS BUT I
WILL JUST SAY IT BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT WE'RE DOING RIGHT NOW.
THE
THE OR YEAH.
THE CURBSIDE RECYCLING WE WERE
THE FIRST I THINK IN MICHIGAN
IF NOT NATIONWIDE WHICH IS
ANOTHER INFRASTRUCTURE THING.
WE ALSO HAD THE FIRST PARKING
STRUCTURE PUBLIC PARKING
STRUCTURE REALLY?
>> YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
IT'S WEIRD FACT I LIKE TO GO
OUT.
YEAH LET'S KEEP GOING.
YEAH.
SO CAN WE MOVE PAST WEEK 12 AND
13?
YES.
YEP.
AND SO ANN ARBOR TODAY THERE'S
TWO SPREADS HERE THAT ARE
TRYING TO SORT OF CAPTURE WHAT
IT'S LIKE TO LIVE IN THE CITY
NOW.
SO I HAD A QUESTION FOR YOU ON
THIS IF YOU THINK THIS UM
RESONATES WITH WHAT YOU'VE
HEARD AND SECONDLY IS THERE ANY
OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA THAT
YOU'D LIKE TO SEE FEATURED IN A
SECTION THAT WOULD ADD TO THE
DESCRIPTION OF WHAT IT'S LIKE
TO BE IN AND OPERATE TODAY?
>> SO I HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT
THESE CARTOONS.
>> ARE THOSE QUOTES FROM PEOPLE
THAT WERE PULLED OUT FROM
SOMEWHERE OR ARE THEY SOME KIND
OF CARTOON REPRESENTATION OF AN
IDEA?
>> I DON'T THINK THESE ARE
PERSONAL QUOTES FROM ENGAGEMENT
BECAUSE WE USED THESE DURING
OUR ENGAGEMENT USE THE WAY WE
EXPLAIN TO PEOPLE MAYBE BUT I
THINK THEY'RE TRYING TO SHARE
THE PERSONAL SIDE OF THIS
EXPERIENCE.
YEAH, SO TS IS PROBABLY THE
MOST FAMILIAR TO SLEIGHTS FOR
COLLEGES BECAUSE WE'VE SEEN
THEM FROM THE VERY, VERY
BEGINNING OF THE ENGAGEMENT
WITH THE CONSULTANT.
>> I THINK IT WOULD BE VERY
POWERFUL TO ACTUALLY USE SOME
GRAPHS TO SHOW RENT INCREASE
BECAUSE IT'S BEEN QUITE STEEP
AND IT'S PRETTY RECENT.
AND ALSO ANOTHER THING IS THE
PACE OF CONSTRUCTION AND I
THINK TO GRAPHICALLY REPRESENT
THAT THERE WAS CONSTRUCTION AT
SCALE IN THE SIXTIES AND THEN
THERE'S A LONG TIME WHERE IT
ISN'T AND THEN IT PICKS UP
AGAIN AROUND TWENTY TWO
THOUSAND FIVE BUT IT'S BUT IT'S
NOWHERE NEAR WHAT PEOPLE THINK
IT IS.
PEOPLE HAVE A FEELING THAT
THERE HAS BEEN TONS AND TONS
OF CONSTRUCTION BUT IN FACT IN
TERMS OF ADDING UNITS IT'S IT'S
IT PALES IN COMPARISON.
THE HOCKEY STICK GRAPH THAT WE
SAW THROUGH THE POST-WORLD WAR
TWO HOUSING BOOM VERSUS LESS
EXACTLY.
SO THIS IS A FOLLOW UP QUESTION
BECAUSE THEIR CHAPTER FOUR
TALKS ABOUT ALL OF THE GOALS
HOUSING IN NEIGHBORHOODS IS ONE
OF THE LOCAL AREAS AND THERE
ARE SEVERAL PAGES THERE WITH
THE RATIONALE THAT HAVE THE MAP
OF WHEN STRUCTURES WERE BUILT
AND GRAFTED OUT THERE.
>> SO THAT'S FOR YOU ALL TO
DECIDE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
MOVE THAT FORWARD TO HELP
DESCRIBE WHAT IT'S LIKE TO LIVE
HERE TODAY OR WE CAN TALK ABOUT
THAT MORE WHEN WE GET TO
CHAPTER FOUR TO SEE IF WE THINK
THAT'S THE APPROPRIATE PLACE
BECAUSE IT IS LISTED THERE AS
THE RATIONALE FOR OUR HOUSING
GOALS.
SO I THINK I THINK WE COULD AND
IF YOU WILL INCORPORATE THE
FEEDBACK WE'VE GOTTEN SO FAR
STILL HERE ON BOTH PAGES 14 AND
15 IF YOU JUST TOOK THE MOST
GRAPHIC WAY THEY HAVE TO PACK
PERSON YOU JUST PUT THE SORRY
YOU JUST PUT THE CHART OF RENT
GROWING BEHIND IT.
THAT CAN BE A WAY TO ANSWER
THAT AND THEY ALREADY HAVE A
CHART IN THE LOWER RIGHT PANEL.
BUT IF YOU PUT A LEGEND ON IT
AND PUT SEVEN NUMBERS AT THE
CENTER OF PAGE FOURTEEN THAT'S
FAKE.
YOU WANT MAKE A REAL I'M JUST
SAYING IT'S AN EASY WAY TO PUT
THE INFORMATION HERE WITHOUT
HAVING TO REDO IT SINCE IT'S
COMING UP LATER.
BUT IT ALSO CAN SHOW UP HERE IN
A IN A MEANINGFUL WAY.
SO JUST A REFLECTION.
>> YEAH.
I MEAN I GUESS WHAT I SHOULD
HAVE SAID MORE BLUNTLY IS THAT
THERE ARE MANY WAYS
OF DELIVERING INFORMATION
VISUALLY AND GRAPHICALLY AND I
WOULD PREFER NOT TO HAVE
CARTOONS ON THESE PAGES.
I WOULD PREFER TO HAVE GRAPHIC
REPRESENTATIONS OF WHAT IT HAS
WHAT WE ARE REALLY DOING AND
WHAT THE RENTAL MARKET REALLY
LOOKS LIKE OR MAYBE WE DO BOTH.
>> BUT I THINK THAT THE
EMPIRICAL DATA IS PRETTY
STUNNING AND THERE ARE MANY
PEOPLE WHO ARE JUST UNAWARE
OF IT.
THEY'RE NOT RENTERS AND BECAUSE
WE HAVE THE HEADLY AND PROBABLY
A CLICK THAT MEANS THAT JUST IF
YOU'RE A HOMEOWNER YOU ARE SO
BUFFERED FROM THE MARKET.
YEAH, I MEAN I THINK YOU'RE
GETTING AT A POINT THAT IS LOST
ON A LOT OF THOSE OF US WHO
HAVE DETACHED SINGLE UNIT
DWELLINGS IS OUR TAXES ARE
SUBSIDIZED AND A LOT OF WAYS BY
NEW DEVELOPMENT.
AND TO THIS POINT IF THERE'S
ANYWHERE FOR US IN THIS SECTION
TO ACTUALLY REVEAL TO YOU FOLKS
THAT RENTERS PAY TAXES PRETTY
MUCH EVERYWHERE IN THE CITY
OF SOMEWHERE BETWEEN FIVE
HUNDRED SEVEN HUNDRED DOLLARS A
MONTH IN TAXES IN THEIR RENT, I
DON'T THINK PEOPLE KNOW THAT
BUT THIS IS TO THAT POINT.
BUT I'M GOING TO SLIGHTLY
DISAGREE WITH MY COLLEAGUE.
>> I STILL LIKE THE UM THE
REPRESENTATION HERE BECAUSE
IT'S VERY ACCESSIBLE.
UM, TO BE ABLE TO READ AND SCAN
AND GET IT.
BUT I THINK BOTH OUR COMMENTS
SHOULD BE TAKEN TOGETHER AND I
THINK WE CAN KEEP GOING SO
MAYBE WE NEED MORE PAGES AND
MAYBE ONE THING THAT I MEAN I
THINK IT'S FINE TO PUT IN MORE.
>> SHE SAID SOMETHING ELSE.
WELL I SHE WANTS TO THINK THAT
THE BUT THE BUT IT MIGHT
ACTUALLY BE WONDERFUL TO DO
WHAT COMMISSIONER WHITE HAS
JUST SAID WHICH IS ACTUALLY TO
COMPARE THE INCREASE THAT ONE
GETS IN TAXES IF ONE IS A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME OR HOMEOWNER
VERSUS THE INCREASE IN RENTAL
COSTS.
I MEAN THE SO THAT WE CAN
CONVEY THIS PICTURE OF WE ARE
HOW SINGLE FAMILY HOMEOWNERS
REALLY ARE BUFFERED FROM THE
MARKET AND IT'S TRUE THAT THESE
UNCAP SO IT MAKES IT VERY
DIFFICULT TO DOWNSIZE YOUR HOME
WHEN YOU GET TEN YEARS OLDER
THAN I CURRENTLY AM.
>> BUT YOU KNOW IN IN THE
MIDDLE HERE WE'RE DEALING WITH
PEOPLE WHOSE PICTURE OF WHAT
THE HOUSING MARKET LOOKS LIKE
IS VERY DIFFERENT, THOSE WHO
HAVE BEEN IN THEIR HOMES FOR A
LONG TIME VERSUS THOSE WHO ARE
RENTERS IN THIS CITY THEY SEE A
VERY DIFFERENT THING THEIR
THEIR SENSE OF PRECARITY OR YOU
HOW LONG CAN I SUSTAIN THIS IS
SO DIFFERENT A NEW BUYERS.
YEAH, THE NEW BUYERS.
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
EXACTLY WHICH THAT COMES UP IN
CHAPTER FOUR BUT IT WOULD BE
NICE TO OFFER SOME PICTURES.
>> I DON'T KNOW I SEE YOUR
YOU'RE SQUINTING MAYBE THIS
DOESN'T SOUND GOOD TO YOU.
>> WELL, I WILL TAKE THE
FEEDBACK WHAT I'M WHAT I AM
HEARING IS A WIDE VARIETY
OF COMMUNICATING THE
INFORMATION IS HELPFUL.
I'M HEARING THAT THERE ARE SOME
ON THE COMMISSION LEAN MORE
INTO THE ACADEMIC DATA SIDE
THAT YOU ARE NOT GETTING FROM
THE CARTOON AND JUST THE
CALLOUT PERCENTAGES.
>> BUT I WOULD CAUTION US A
LITTLE BIT WHEN YOU'RE WHEN
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT TRYING TO
GRAPHICLY DEMONSTRATE THE
IMPACT OF RENT INCREASES WITH
HOW TAXES IMPACT BOTH THE
DOWNSIDE OF HOMEOWNERSHIP AND
THE TIMES THE HANDCUFFS BEING
PUT IN PLACE, YOU ARE STARTING
TO GET INTO A PRETTY HEATED
STOP AND WITH ALL DUE RESPECT,
THIS PLAN IS YOUR REACTION TO
THAT AND IF YOU THINK THAT YOU
NEED THAT IN ORDER TO HAVE THE
CONVICTION TO MAKE THESE
POLICIES, THEN WE SHOULD TALK
ABOUT IT.
>> BUT IN SOME WAYS I THINK
THIS PLAN IS WHAT ARE WE GOING
TO DO ABOUT THAT?
IT DOESN'T TO ME IT IT DOESN'T
IN FACT HAVE TO BE THE RESEARCH
PAPER ON EVERY FACET OF THE WHY
IS THE WHY IS IT WHAT YOU ARE
DOING?
>> I HEAR THAT I'VE ALSO HEARD
MORE THAN ONCE PEOPLE SAYING
WHY ARE WE PLANNING AND DO WE
HAVE A HOUSING CRISIS IN THAT
WE HAVE A LETTER IN OUR
PACKAGE.
IT'S THE FIRST ONE WHICH YOU
KNOW, I SPUN OUT OF CONTROL
RESPONDING TO EVERY LITTLE
POINT AND OF COURSE I CAN'T I
DON'T HAVE THE EMAIL OF THE
PERSON AND SO I DON'T KNOW HOW
TO COMMUNICATE WITH HIM.
BUT WE'VE HEARD THAT AT A
COUPLE OF SESSIONS AND SO YOU
ARE ABSOLUTELY I COMPLETELY
TAKE YOUR POINT TOO.
WEEDY GIRL.
>> BUT CAN WE POSSIBLY SIMPLIFY
IT?
>> WOMAN RESPECTFUL OH
ABSOLUTELY.
NO, I TELL YOU ARE I AGREE WITH
WE HAVE A RESPECTFUL THING.
IS THERE ANY WAY TO YOU KNOW
KHATUNA TO PICTURE THE HOW TO
MAKE IT?
>> YEAH.
GO YEAH.
>> WHAT IS YOUR COMMENT THAT
WHAT SHOULD BE WHAT'S IN THE
GRAPHIC SHOULD BE IN THE
CARTOON SHOULD BE DIFFERENT BUT
THAT THAT FORMAT IS OK.
>> THAT'S WHAT I HEAR YOU'RE
LOOKING FOR DATA.
>> YEAH THAT IS WHY THAT
CARTOON WAS DRAFTED THE WAY IT
WAS SO AND SO THAT'S MY
QUESTION BECAUSE WE'RE TALKING
UP PAGE ELEMENTS AND
ACCESSIBILITY THAT INFORMATION
DOES COME LATER.
SO IF WE WANT TO PULL IT
FORWARD, DO WE WANT TO REPEAT
IT OR DO WE WANT TO PULL IT
FORWARD HERE AND NOT HAVE IT
LATER OR DO WE WANT TO TRY TO
EXPRESS IT DIFFERENTLY THIS
CARTOON CAN WE GIVE IT TO YOU
TO TRY TO SYNTHESIZE BECAUSE
YOU COULD JUST TAKE THE
COLLECTIVE COMMENTS AND THEN
ADD A SECTION TO SAY SOMETHING
HERE AND OK, YOU'LL REPEAT IN
CHAPTER FOUR WHAT WE TALK ABOUT
CHAPTER FOUR.
YEAH, LET'S REQUESTS MAYBE
SINCE WE HAVE SOME OTHERS A LOT
OF SEEMS LIKE THERE'S A LOT
OF POLARIZATION ABOUT THESE
CARTOONS.
CAN YOU BE THAT POLARIZED?
WELL YOU'RE ON ONE POLL AND I'M
ON ANOTHER POLL THREE ASK
DURING THIS PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION WE GET LIKE CAN
YOU GET REACTIONS TO THEM?
I LIKE THEM BECAUSE LIKE IT'S
LIKE SOMETHING ELSE TO READ.
WE GOT WE GOT FEEDBACK FROM
STAFF AS WELL.
SO THERE ARE PEOPLE PEOPLE READ
DIFFERENTLY.
RIGHT.
SO SOME PEOPLE LOOK AT THIS
GRAPHIC AND THINK LIKE I'M
NEVER GOING TO READ THAT THIS
LOOKS LIKE A LETTER.
SOME PEOPLE GO STRAIGHT TO AND
READ IT.
AND SO I THINK WE ARE TRYING TO
STRIKE A BALANCE OF DIFFERENT
WAYS TO DISPLAY DATA IF THIS
LEADS TO IF THERE'S CONSENSUS
LEANS TOO HEAVY ON CARTOONS,
THEN WE CAN REMOVE SOME OF THEM
I WOULD SAY.
>> BUT WE CAN AS WE HAVE
ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS COMING UP,
I DON'T MOMENT MATERIALS I'M
PREPARING WE'LL INCLUDE THEM.
>> MAYBE THEY'LL JUST BE
ORGANIC FEEDBACK THAT WE CAN
TAKE.
YEAH, I'VE GOT A COUPLE MORE
THINGS ON THIS BUT THE OVERGREW
TWENTY FOUR PERCENT MEANS
SEVENTEEN TWENTY COMPARED TO
FIFTY NINE PERCENT OF FACULTY
THAT FIFTY NINE PERCENT THAT'S
A CRAZY DISPARITY I THINK THAT
FIFTY NINE PERCENT NEEDS TO BE
BIGGER AND THEN THE INCOMING
STUDENTS ARE COMING FOR SEVENTY
FIVE PERCENT OF WHAT GROWTH IN
OUR GROWTH IS GROWTH IN OUR
GROUP BUT THAT NUMBERS FROM AT
LEAST IF YOU LOOK ON THE SPREAD
ON THE PREVIOUS PAGE.
SIXTY ONE PERCENT IF YOU LOOK
ON THE MAP AND TEN ELEVEN I DID
THE MATH SO WE'RE ONE OF THEM
SEEMS TO BE OFF BUT YEAH.
YEAH WHICH WHICH GROUP.
WHAT GROUP.
YEAH IT DOESN'T MATCH FROM
WHAT'S ON THE TIMELINE.
I MEAN IF YOU JUST LISTEN TO US
BECAUSE IT'S IS IT IS IT IS IT
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
YEAH WE JUST NEED TO CLARIFY IF
IT IS I KNOW BUT THEN IT NEEDS
TO MATCH THE CHART AND THEN SAY
OH BANARAS GROWTH AND THEN THE
FIRST PARAGRAPH AT THE END IN
GENERAL POPULATION IS AGING AND
FAMILY AGED RESIDENTS ARE
DECREASING A I LOVE A CITATION
BUT WE LIKE THE NUMBER
OF LEADERS ARE DECREASING THE
PERCENTAGE OF FAMILY AGED
FAMILY OR YEAH YOU DON'T HAVE
FAMILY ANYMORE.
>> I JUST READ THAT SENTENCE
NEEDS SOMETHING ABOUT THE
DEMOGRAPHIC DATA WE HAVE ARE
EIGHTEEN BELOW AND ARE SIXTY
FIVE AND ABOVE ARE INCREASING
OUR AND OUR OUR THIRTY FOUR TO
SIXTY FIVE IS DECREASING.
CAN WE JUST PUT THAT INSTEAD
OF SAYING FAMILY AGED OR
BECAUSE FAMILY AGED IMPLIES
THAT YOU ARE PART OF A FAMILY
IF YOU ARE YOUNGER OR OLDER AND
I WAS CONFUSED BECAUSE THIS WAS
RIGHT AFTER YOU'VE JUST MADE
STUFF NOT YOU THAT SOUNDS
ACCUSATORY.
>> SOMEONE MADE THE CLAIM THAT
KATSUMATA THE CITY'S GROSS IS
ATTRIBUTED TO THE STUDENT
POPULATION AND THEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT OLD PEOPLE AND IT
JUST EMPHASIZED MIDDLE
STUDENTS.
>> BUT EVEN THEN WHAT YOU WERE
JUST SAYING LIKE EIGHTEEN
YOUNGER IS NOT COLLEGE
STUDENTS.
>> YEAH, RIGHT.
AND SO THAT'S WHERE IT WAS.
>> IT JUST FELT LIKE A NON
SEQUITUR ARE 18 TO 30 IS
GROWING, IS GROWING ARE 65 AND
OVER POPULATION IS GROWING, ARE
YOUNGER THAN 18 IS FALLING AND
THIRTY FIVE TO SIXTY FIVE IS
ALL THAT WHAT'S FAMILY AGE.
>> FAMILY AGE IS 18 TO 34.
YOU'RE CALLING BUT YOU JUST
SAID THIS WE ARE CALLING FOR
WOMEN SO THIS IS GOING TO BE
FIVE TO SIXTY FIVE CHILDREN
UNDER EIGHT THAT WE NEED SOME
CLARIFICATION GOING TO BE ONE
OF THOSE PLACES WHERE I ASKED
TO SEE IF WE COULD ONE OTHER
CLARIFICATION.
WELL I THINK A GLOSSARY YES.
THAT'S I THINK WE CAN
DEFINITELY SUPPORT THIS AT JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE WE'RE NOT I
WANT TO GIVE YOU A MINUTE TO
CATCH UP BEFORE I START, OK?
I THINK A GLOSSARY AND ON THIS
AND HERE IN PARTICULAR I THINK
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED
SOMETHING WE ALL KNOW VERY WELL
BUT NOT A GENERAL PERSON
WOULDN'T LET ME IN SO WE COULD
ADD THAT TO THE GLOSSARY AND
THEN A VERY MINOR COMMENT AT
THE BOTTOM OF THAT SAME
PARAGRAPH ON PAGE FIFTEEN IT
SAYS STRATEGIES IMPLEMENTED BY
THE CITY SHOULD FOCUS ON
STARTING THE CONVERSATION WHICH
FELT VERY IT DIDN'T.
I THINK WE OUGHT TO BE MORE
MORE PROACTIVE AND ASSERTIVE
WITH MORE SENSE OF URGENCY THAN
JUST STARTING THE CONVERSATION.
SO JUST A SMALL REVISION.
>> THE THINGS I'M GETTING INTO
LINE FOR ME ON THAT PAGE I JUST
WANTED TO SAY LIKE FORTY NINE
PERCENT OF OUR ROADS DON'T USE
A CAR TO WHICH I THOUGHT WAS
FASCINATING EVEN THOUGH WE'VE
USED THE NUMBER FIFTY ONE
PERCENT COMMUTE TO WORK WITH A
CAR THE IDEA THAT FORTY NINE
PERCENT DON'T IS WHILE SCHEMING
FROM IT'S PRETTY HIGH THIS
SECOND SPREAD IS ALSO AN ARBOR
TODAY SO THIS IS TRYING TO DO
THE SAME THING, TELL THE SAME
STORY IT LIKE WHAT IT'S LIKE TO
LIVE HERE.
SIXTEEN SEVENTEEN.
YES COMMISSIONER GORDON'S
TRYING TO GET IN.
I WANT MAKE A KIND OF A
STATEMENT AND ASK A QUESTION
OF THE COMMISSION STARTING
FIRST BY SAYING I TOTALLY
UNDERSTAND THESE NUMBERS.
I GET THE HOUSING CRISIS, I GET
THE COMMUTING DISCONNECT, I GET
THE ALL OF THE THINGS THAT
WE'RE DEALING WITH.
WE'RE STRUGGLING WITH TO THINK
THIS IS IN OUR BUDGET TODAY
THOUGH IS THE SECTION AND THE
THING THAT'S HITTING ME IS
MISSING IS THE FACT THAT THERE
ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE IN ANN
ARBOR WHO ARE PERFECTLY LIKE
THE WAY ANN ARBOR IS AND THEY
ARE REALLY SCARED ABOUT CHANGE
AND THEY'RE SCREAMING AT US
THAT WE'RE NOT LISTENING TO
THEM SO I MEAN YOU MENTIONED
EARLIER THIS IS NOT A BRIEF.
>> IT'S AN EPIC.
IT'S PERSONAL WICKETKEEPERS I
THINK WE HAVE TO ACKNOWLEDGE
SOMEWHERE THERE ARE A LOT
OF PEOPLE IN ANN ARBOR WHO
REALLY LIKE IT NO THE WAY IT IS
AND I WANT TO SEE A CHANGE IN
IT'S A PERFECTLY NORMAL NATURAL
POSITION TO BE IN AND WE NEED
THE RESPECT WE NEED AND
RECOGNIZE THAT RESPECTFULLY AND
THEN TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW
TO BRING FOLKS TOGETHER TO TALK
ABOUT HOW WE DEAL WITH THESE
PROBLEMS AND I'M NOT SURE I
THINK IT'S SOME SORT OF BRING
THAT BUT I THINK THIS NEAT THAT
NEEDS TO BE STATED HERE
SOMEWHERE IN A MEANINGFUL WAY.
>> I FEEL LIKE IT'S MORE
CHAPTER TWO BECAUSE LIKE WE'RE
WE'RE SORT OF DISTILLING LIKE
WHAT WE HEARD FROM PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT WHICH I'M HOPING CAN
START THEM.
>> YEAH, IT'S THERE.
BUT THIS IS THIS IS BEING
PRESENTED IS HERE'S TO TAKE ON
THE FACTS OF THE WORLD AND THIS
IS WHAT THE NUMBERS ARE LIKE
TODAY AND IT'S MISSING.
WE KNOW THAT THERE ARE WE DON'T
NEED TO WAIT UNTIL THIS IS WHAT
WE HEARD TO POINT OUT THAT WE
RECOGNIZE THERE ARE PEOPLE IN
THE CITY WHO ARE SCARED ABOUT
WHAT THEY'RE SEEN COMING OUT
OF THIS PLANNING EFFORT.
>> SO SO WE COULD ADD THAT WE
JUST WE DON'T HAVE A PERCENTAGE
RIGHT LIKE THAT WITH THIS
FORMAT.
SO I WOULDN'T KNOW HOW TO ADD
THE PERCENTAGE BUT WE COULD WE
COULD ADD A LINE ADDRESSING
THAT.
>> I THINK I JUST YOU GUYS ARE
ALL RIGHT.
THESE ARE POLICY THESE ARE
POLICY PRESCRIPTIONS AND
JUDGMENTS.
THESE ARE NOT LIKE PUBLIC
SUPPORT TYPE CLAIMS, RIGHT?
YEAH.
EVERYTHING ON THE SLIDE IS
THINGS THAT WE THINK WE NEED.
>> IT'S NOT SUPPORTS WHAT
THAT'S ALL COVERED LATER ON AND
I AND I THINK WE DO ADDRESS THE
NATURE AND MAGNITUDE OF SUPPORT
IN THOSE IN CHAPTER TWO I'M
TELLING YOU I'M APPROACHING
THIS AS SOMEONE WHO LIVES IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD IS REALLY SCARED
ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING AND WHAT
I'M SEEING IS A TOTAL FRAMING
ADVOCACY JOB THAT'S LAYING OUT
HERE ALL THE FACTS AND YOU'RE
NOT LISTENING TO ME.
>> THIS IS DATA ABOUT LAND USE.
SO THIS IS JUST LIKE THIRTY
EIGHT PERCENT OF OWNER OCCUPIED
HOUSEHOLDS AND NINETY TWO
PERCENT OF US LIVE WITHIN A TEN
MINUTE WALK IN THE PARK LIKE
THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE PUBLIC
OPINION EVEN VALUES.
RIGHT.
SO IF THERE'S A DATA POINT, IF
THERE'S A DATA POINT THAT WOULD
CAPTURE SOMETHING THAT YOU'RE
WHAT YOU'RE DESCRIBING THIS IS
WE'RE NOWHERE IN IT.
>> WE'RE SAYING NO ONE WANT
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> YEAH.
WE SHOULD GET AT IT.
>> WE COULD MAYBE DO
HOUSEHOLDS.
THAT'S HARD TO GET TO.
I WOULD ALSO SAY YOU BELIEVE I
HEAR WHAT COMMISSIONER NORTON
IS SAYING AND I WOULD SAY THAT
PAGE SIXTEEN NOT CARTOONS
NECESSARILY BUT THE TEXT ON
PAGE SIXTEEN IS LIKE THIS IS A
DARN GREAT PLACE TO LIVE.
I MEAN THAT'S WHAT THOSE BOOKS
MAYBE THERE IS ONLY ONE NUMBER
ON IT BUT THAT'S THAT IS WHAT
THAT'S HOW I READ THOSE THINGS.
NOT LIKE THERE'S ANYTHING GOING
WRONG.
IT'S LIKE IT EXTREMELY HIGH
QUALITY OF LIFE AND WE'VE GOT
THE INFORMATION ABOUT HOW CLOSE
YOU ARE TO PARKS AND I'M SURE
THAT THERE'S A COUPLE OTHER
THINGS THAT OR SOMETHING ELSE.
I MEAN THE TWENTY MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD RIGHT IN THINKING
ABOUT WHERE IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT
THE PARKS BUT ACCESS TO OTHER
THINGS COULD BE PART OF THAT
POTENTIALLY.
I AGREE WITH WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
THAT I'VE GOT A PROBLEM WITH
THAT FIRST SENTENCE.
BUT I MEAN IT'S IT'S TRUE THAT
ACCESS TO ESSENTIAL DECISIONS
IS CRUCIAL TO COMMUNITIES
OF COLOR ARE MORE LIKELY RESIDE
IN NEIGHBORHOODS WITH LIMITED
ACCESS TO GUNS.
IS THAT JUST A GENERAL THAT
THERE IS IS I THAT IS NOT IS
SPECIFIC TO NRA BECAUSE I DON'T
THAT MEANS I MEAN THAT IS A
GENERAL TRUTH BUT I DON'T THINK
IT'S I DON'T KNOW IS THAT TO
HEAR OR JUST IN GENERAL I
WANTED A CITATION AND I WANTED
TO KNOW WHERE CAN WE BECAUSE
WE'VE WE'VE SPENT A LOT OF TIME
ON THESE TWO PAGES SO I'M JUST
DOING A TIME CHECK AND I WOULD
LIKE TO PROPOSE SOMETHING TO
YOU AND JUST A SECOND
COMMISSIONER, WHICH IS I THINK
PLACES WHERE THE CONSULTANTS
ARE STATING SOMETHING IF THEY
CAN ADD CITATIONS TO WHERE THAT
IS LIKE THROUGHOUT THE DOCUMENT
WOULD BE HELPFUL.
I JUST THINK IT WILL SORT
OF MINIMIZE PEOPLE'S SUSPICION.
YES, THE STATEMENTS AND THE
CITY IS A MAJORITY WHITE CITY.
THE POPULATION IS SOMEWHERE
OVER 70 PERCENT.
SO I THINK WE CAN, YOU KNOW,
SORT TO EXTRAPOLATE FROM THERE
THAT THE STATEMENT IS TRUE BUT
THEN BEING ABLE TO THEN
ACTUALLY SAY OK, HERE'S THE
CITATION THAT SUPPORTS THAT.
I THINK THAT HELPS WITH PEOPLE
TO TRUST THE INFORMATION THAT
THEY'RE GETTING AS I AM HEARING
COMMISSIONER NORTON, I I THINK
THAT THE CHALLENGE THAT I FEEL
THERE IS THERE'S NOT A CLEAR
DATA
POINT THAT WE CAN ACCESS
BECAUSE LIKE YOU I'VE BEEN
ASKING PROBABLY FOR FIVE OR SIX
YEARS THAT I'VE BEEN ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
HOW MANY UNITS ARE AND ARE RUN
AND ARE TOO LIKE ASKING FOR THE
BREAKDOWNS OF THOSE THINGS AND
IT'S BEEN HARD TO GET IT
COMPLETELY SO THAT WE CAN
ANSWER THE QUESTION OF HOW WHAT
PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION
LIVE AND SINGLE FAMILY ZONES OR
HOUSING UNITS AND SO I WONDER
IF WE CAN SORT OF COME TALK TO
YOU TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET
THAT SORT OF DATA POINT AND
THEN TRY TO FIGURE WHERE IT
LIVES WITHIN THE DOCUMENT I
THINK WE CAN FIND THAT BUT I
GUESS I'M NOT SEEING THE
CONNECTION TO COMMISSIONER
NORTON BECAUSE NOT EVERYONE IN
A SINGLE FAMILY HOME IS
NECESSARILY SCARED OF THIS
CHANGE.
YOU'RE RIGHT THAT NOBODY COMES
FROM THAT.
I KNOW.
I RECOGNIZE THAT.
YEAH.
BUT WE AND I YOU KNOW, I GOT TO
SAY YOU I FOLKS ARE TELLING ME
THERE AREN'T VALUE STATEMENTS
IN HERE ACCESS TO ESSENTIAL
DESTINATIONS IS CRUCIAL FOR A
QUALITY OF LIFE.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE A VALUE
STATEMENT TO ME.
PEOPLE READ THESE FACTS FROM
THE VALUE POSITION THAT THEY'RE
COMING FROM AND THEY'RE GOING
TO READ THIS AS YOU'RE NOT
LISTENING TO ME, YOU'RE TOTALLY
STACKING THE DECK AGAINST MY
VIEWPOINT, DOESN'T THERE OTHERS
WHO WILL SAY THAT ARE ON THE
OPPOSITE SIDE ARE SAYING
THEY'RE GOING TO TAKE THIS
STUFF AWAY.
I'M SAYING IT WOULD BE NICE TO
ACKNOWLEDGE X PERCENT OF THE
RESIDENTS IN THE CITY LIVE IN A
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT AND MANY OF THEM VALUE
THE KIND OF SETTING THAT THAT
CREATES AND JUST ACKNOWLEDGE
WELL IN SIXTY TWO PERCENT
OF THEM ARE NOT RENT OR ARE NOT
BURDENED BY IF YOU TAKE THE
REVERSE OF THE YOU ARE NOT COST
BURDENED.
SO THAT'S GOING TO HELP.
I MEAN LIKE IF YOU'RE NOT COST
BURDENED BY HOUSING YOU'RE MORE
LIKELY GOING TO APPRECIATE YOUR
HOUSING WHICH HELPS TO EXPLAIN
WHY PEOPLE WHY SO MANY PEOPLE
ARE SO UNHAPPY ABOUT AND SCARED
ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING.
I'M JUST ASKING FOR SOMETHING
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT HERE WE CAN
LOOK INTO PERCENTAGES OF PEOPLE
IN SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND MAKE
A STATEMENT ABOUT SOME OF THEM
ARE HAPPY WITH STATUS QUO.
>> WE MIGHT FEEL SOME DATA WE
DO NATIONAL AND I DON'T LIKE
IT.
>> I TO BE HONEST I MEAN I AS
SOON AS WE GET TO PAGE TWENTY
TWENTY ONE YOU'RE GOING TO HEAR
MORE CLEARLY WHY I HAVE
PROBLEMS WITH US EVEN BRINGING
IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS
BECAUSE THE ORIGIN OF SOME
OF THESE HISTORIC DISTRICTS
WHICH EXCLUDE MULTIUNIT
FAMILIES WHICH TO DO THE
ABSOLUTE OPPOSITE OF WHAT
COMMISSIONER NORTON IS TALKING
ABOUT WHICH IS TO DENY PEOPLE
ACCESS TO THESE ESSENTIAL
THINGS THAT IMPROVE THEIR
QUALITY OF LIFE.
SO LIKE I GET IT I MEAN I THIS
IS MY COMMENT.
THIS IS HIS I THINK WE'LL GIVE
IT TO YOU STAFF TO SORT OF I
MEAN IF IT COULD BE
COMMISSIONER YEAH.
HE COULD CALL THAT THAT'S IT.
>> I THINK THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR I AM NOT
DEFENDING SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
>> THAT'S THE BEST KIND
OF DISTRICT IN THE CITY I'M
TRYING TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THIS CITY WHO LIVE IN THOSE
KINDS NEIGHBORHOODS AND VALUE
THEM FOR LOTS OF DIFFERENT
REASONS.
AND IF WE DON'T ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT WE LOSE PEOPLE FROM THE
GET GO AND I I'M TOTALLY ON
BOARD WITH THE POLICIES THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ADVANCE TO
IMPROVE HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES
AND SUCH BUT I THINK WE'RE
MISSING AN OPPORTUNITY TO REACH
OUT AND TRY AND ENGAGE IN
DIALOG IF WE CAN'T EVEN
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE ARE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN A CITY.
>> THAT'S WHAT I'M STRUGGLING
WITH THOUGH IS THAT WE DO RIGHT
.
SO ON PAGE THIRTY TWO WE TALK
ABOUT RESIDENTS WHO WHO WANT
THIS BALANCED APPROACH, WANT TO
PRESERVE THEIR OPEN SPACE, WANT
THE GREEN SPACES TO DISTRICTS
TO PAGE THIRTY THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO READ FURTHER THAN PAGE
SEVEN.
SEVENTEEN I THINK AND I JUST
DON'T THINK IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
PUT RIGHT HERE IT'S IN THE
DOCUMENT BUT YOU CAN DO THIS
BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S A THAT'S
A GOOD TEST RIGHT NOW BECAUSE
WE'RE HERE I THAT JUST FOR
COMMISSIONER AND I DON'T SEE
ANYTHING IN HERE THAT SAYS
THOSE PEOPLE ARE NOT VALUED.
SO IS THERE SOMETHING IN THAT
IN THESE TWO SPREADS THAT MAKES
THAT THAT INDICATES THAT PEOPLE
WHO ARE HAPPY HERE AND SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES ARE NOT VALUED?
ISN'T IT BECAUSE I UNDERSTAND
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING BUT IT
DOESN'T SHOW UP TO ME THIS
MORNING I DID PUT THIS ON THE
TABLE BECAUSE I'M I'M REALLY
NEW LEAD ON THIS.
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE IT OUT SO
I PUT IT ON THE TABLE TO BROACH
THE TOPIC.
I DON'T SO I DON'T WANT TO PUSH
PRESSURE.
>> LET ME DO I FEEL LIKE I MEAN
I JUST WANT YOU TO FEEL LIKE
YOU'RE NOT BEING HURT.
BUT THAT'S THE PIECE THAT I
THINK THE TABLE IS FRIENDLY TO.
>> I THINK YOU HEARD EVERYTHING
THAT'S HAPPENED OVER THE PAST
SIX WEEKS OR THREE MEETINGS IS
HEARD AND INCORPORATED INTO MY
WHAT I'M HEARING YOU SAYING IS
THAT THERE'S A LOT THAT AS WE
READ THIS DOCUMENT WE NOD.
WE'RE NODDING.
OH YEAH.
>> AND YOU KNOW, WE JUST
FLAGGED THIS ACCESS TO
ESSENTIAL ASSASSINATION'S BLAH
BLAH BLAH.
WE NEED A SITE FOR THAT BECAUSE
THAT SEEMS LIKE VALUE
STATEMENT.
BUT STILL WE NOD WHEN WE READ
THAT AND I THINK WHAT
COMMISSIONER NORTON IS
SUGGESTING IS THAT THERE ARE
OTHER FOLKS WHO AREN'T HAVING
MUCH YET TO NOD AT AND THERE
MAY MAYBE HAVING THEY'RE
READING SOME STATEMENTS THAT
REALLY WILL JUMP OUT AT THEM AS
VALUE STATEMENTS AND THAT THEY
DON'T FEEL REFLECTED IN AND
MAYBE YEAH, MAYBE MAYBE THAT'S
WHAT I'M KNOW.
SO I WANT TO THROW THAT ON THE
TABLE AND PLEASE JUST THINK IT
THROUGH AND IF I HAVE A BETTER,
MORE COHERENT SUGGESTION I'LL
COME BACK WITH IT.
>> I'M SO FOR NOW I WROTE TABLE
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> OK I WANTED TO MAKE A STRIKE
ON 17 AND 18 IS THE RIGHT TIME
TO YES I CERTAINLY DO.
I THOUGHT WE WERE ON SEVENTEEN
OH WE ARE ON SEVEN SO GO AHEAD.
SO I'M GOING TO ASK I THINK I
SHOULD ASK FIRST OF ALL BECAUSE
I'M ASKING FOR IT TO BE CUT AND
I'M GOING TO SAY EXACTLY WHAT I
THINK NEEDS TO BE CUT.
WE GOT MULTIPLE PUBLIC COMMENTS
ON THIS AND I AGREE WITH THEM.
SO THE LAST TWO SENTENCE
SENTENCES IN THE FARTHEST RIGHT
HAND PARAGRAPH AT THE BOTTOM
RIGHT HAND CORNER OF SEVENTEEN
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VALUES ARE
RISING FASTER.
THE RESIDENTIAL VALUES AND SOME
COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES GENERATE
MORE VALUE PER ACRE TO FOSTER
ECONOMIC DIVERSIFICATION THE
CITY MUST BALANCE THE URGENT
NEED FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WITH STRATEGIC COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT, CREATING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMERGING
BUSINESSES AND REDUCING
RELIANCE ON THE UNIVERSITY AND
THEN INSTEAD ON EIGHTEEN
THERE'S A VERY SIMILAR CONCEPT
AT THE TOP OF THE PAGE WHILE
NEW HOUSING GENERATES REVENUE
FOR THE CITY AND HELPS
CAPITALIZE THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND LOSING NON
RESIDENTIAL TAX BASE SHIFTS AN
EVEN GREATER BURDEN ON THE
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
I NOT AT ALL CLEAR WHAT I WANT
TO STRIKE.
IT'S THOSE IT'S ALL OF THAT
CONTENT.
THERE ARE VARIOUS REASONS I
THINK WE SHOULD SUMMARIZE SOME
OF THEM IN MY COMMENTS ON
JANUARY TWENTY THIRD WE GOT
MORE COMMENTS ON THESE.
I THINK THEY'RE WELL MADE ABOUT
HEARD THIS ISSUE BALANCING OUR
PRIORITIZING COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT TO BE DOMINANT OR
EVEN MAJOR IF THEMATICALLY
COMMENTS THE NOTION THAT WE
NEED TO DO THIS IS UNSUPPORTED
BY DATA THAT I'M AWARE OF .
THESE CLAIMS ARE NOT SUPPORTED
IN THE DOCUMENT.
I THINK THEY'RE
COUNTERINTUITIVE.
THEY RUN COUNTER TO WHAT WE
HEARD FROM MR. HULTMAN
REGARDING THE VACANCY RATES AND
WHY SOME LOCATIONS STRUGGLE TO
HAVE RETAIL AND THAT'S HOUSING.
BUT THE MOST IMPORTANT REASON I
THINK YOU NEED TO GO GETS BACK
TO MY COMMENTS ABOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT REPORT.
IT REACHED THE EXACT OPPOSITE
CONCLUSION ON THIS ISSUE.
IT AFFIRMATIVELY AFFIRMATIVELY
REJECTED THE PRIORITIZATION
OF THIS.
IT PRIORITIZED HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AND IT LAID OUT FOR
HOW IT'S LAID OUT FOR VALUES
AND DIRECTED US TO PRIORITIZE
THOSE AT THE EXPENSE OF OTHERS.
THIS WAS NOT ONE OF THEM.
I THINK THESE THESE SENTENCES
NEED TO GO THERE NOW.
I WAS NOT I DIDN'T SUPPORT
SENTENCES ON THE TWENTY THIRD
AND I WOULD JUST ASK FOR A
QUICK STRAW POLL IF THAT'S
FOLKS ARE LET'S JUST CUT UP.
>> WOULD YOU ALSO ADD THAT
THAT'S ON PAGE NINETEEN ON PAGE
NINETEEN THE PROPERTIES AD
REVENUE TO THE CITY AND
REQUIRING LESS SPENDING.
YES YES.
AND ADD THAT TO THE STRAW POLL
THAT NEEDS TO GO PLUS ONE.
WE HAVEN'T DONE A STRAW POLL
HERE SO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
LET'S ASK A QUICK QUESTION.
>> YOU HAD A COUPLE COMMENTS IN
THERE.
WHICH ITEMS DO YOU WOULD YOU BE
INTERESTED IN SEEING THE DATA
THAT BACKS UP OR YOU DON'T KNOW
ABOUT THAT?
>> I WAS JUST OK, I THINK AND
IT'S NOT THAT I'M NOT
INTERESTED IN DATA, IT'S THAT I
RAISE THIS ISSUE ON THE TWENTY
THIRD AND WE'RE KIND OF OUT
OF TIME LIKE WE NEED A MARKET
DOCUMENT UP.
THERE'S NO DATA IN HERE AND I
DON'T AGREE WITH WITH THE
STATEMENTS SO I THINK THEY JUST
NEED TO GO AWAY THOSE LIKE
WE'RE JUST GOING TO DO A STRAW
POLL WITH YOUR HANDS SO THAT I
CAN SEE WHY ARE WE IN FAVOR.
YEAH.
THAT ARE IN FAVOR OF STRIKING.
ALL RIGHT.
SO ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR, FIVE
,SIX THOSE AGAINST OK I WANT
TO VOTE I DON'T KNOW ENOUGH
OF ABOUT IT BUT IT IS I DO
FIGHT I MEAN I'LL AGREE WITH
STRIKING IT BUT I THINK WE NEED
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND I
THINK THAT IS PART OF BUT IT'S
JUST WEIRD THAT TO ME THAT
COMES IN IN THESE LIKE THAT
IT'S NOT A SEPARATE SECTION OR
OR AN IMPORTANT PIECE FOR
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT THAT
IT'S JUST LIKE A LITTLE BIT IN
THESE IT'S KIND OF PUT IN AS
JUST OH YEAH.
AND HERE THIS THING IS REALLY
IMPORTANT TO THE ENTIRE HEALTH
OF THE CITY BUT IT'S LIKE A
PARAGRAPH SOMEWHERE IN THE
MIDDLE OF SOMETHING THAT'S JUST
KIND OF COME UP AND I THINK
THAT'S WHY IT IT FEELS VERY
DISJOINTED.
IT DOESN'T FEEL AGAIN I WAS
LOOKING AT LIKE FOLDERS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND YOU
KNOW, IT'S A HUGE SECTION
OF THEIR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
LIKE HOW DO YOU DO?
AND SO IT JUST FEELS VERY
TOTALLY THROWN IN HERE TOTALLY.
>> I JUST DON'T THINK IT'S A
IT'S NOT THAT IT'S NOT
IMPORTANT.
IT'S JUST THAT I DON'T THINK
THAT WE NEED TO SPEND A LOT
OF TIME PLANNING AROUND IT.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
DID BEFORE THE MEETING IS I
WENT I LOOKED AT THAT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHICH WAS
PREPARED WITH A LOT
OF ENGAGEMENT AMONG EXPERTS IN
CITY HALL OUTSIDE OF CITY HALL
FOR WHAT THEY SAY ABOUT IT NOW
VERY MUCH AND THEY THEY DIDN'T
VIEW IT AS IMPORTANT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
THEY DIDN'T THEY DIDN'T VIEW IT
AND THEY TACKLED LAND USE TO.
RIGHT.
SO I WAS THINKING ABOUT OK,
CHECK MY MATH ON THIS THIS
DOESN'T FEEL IMPORTANT ENOUGH
TO INCLUDE HERE.
AM I WRONG?
HOW DID THAT RULE YOUR
DOCUMENT?
I DIDN'T HAVE A HAND AND TACKLE
IT AND THE ANSWER IS IT DIDN'T
AND IT ACTUALLY I THINK PUSHED
US IN A DIFFERENT DIRECTION,
WHICH IS WHY I THINK IT JUST
NEEDS TO COME OUT OK.
>> I THINK WE STRUCK IT.
COMMISSIONER, DID YOU ALL WANT
TO SAY ANYTHING BEFORE WE MOVED
ON?
YOU PROBABLY SAW ON PAGE 18 OR
WE'RE STILL IN THE STRIKE ZONE
WHICH I LIKE.
I HAD IT BUT I WANTED TO SEE
THE DATA FIRST BEFORE.
SO THAT'S WHY I DIDN'T VOTE
BECAUSE LIKE SOME LIKE BUT
THAT'S OVERALL I'D LIKE TO SEE
MORE CITATIONS SO I'M NOT
OPPOSED BUT I I WOULD LIKE THAT
BEFORE STRIKING BUT I'M COOL
AND I MEAN I'M JUST RELOOKING
AT THE REPORT UM TO REPORT THE
YOU THIS IS HOW HE DEVELOPMENT
IS HARD TERM TO DEFINE
UNIVERSALLY FOR SOME IT MEANS
BUSINESS RETENTION FOR THE
PURPOSE OF THIS REPORT WE WILL
MEAN PLACEMAKING OR USING THE
POWER OF THE GOVERNMENT TO
CREATE SPACES WHERE PEOPLE WANT
TO LIVE, WORK AND RECREATE.
IT ALSO MEANS LAND DEVELOPMENT
FOR HOUSING OR FOR THE
ATTRACTION OF EMPLOYERS AND
JOBS AND SOME OF THE DIRECTION
OF THIS REPORT WAS ABOUT UM
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN SAYING TO US ABOUT
PROTECTING LOCAL BUSINESS WHICH
IS NOT QUITE THE SAME AS THIS
POINT THAT'S GROUNDED IN
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VALUES.
SO I AM NOT I YEAH.
>> UH, I'M NOT OPPOSED TO
SOMETHING BEING IN THERE THAT
TACKLES THIS WITH MORE
PRECISION OR MORE DATA.
BUT I THINK FOR THE PURPOSES
OF THIS EVENING THOSE
STATEMENTS STRIKE ME AS
UNSUPPORTED AND CONTRARY TO THE
ARE GOING BACK TO THE FOUR
VALUES THAT ARE LAID OUT IN THE
TOP OF THE REPORT AND THE
DIRECTION TO PRIORITIZE THOSE
VALUES OVER OTHERS, THE
DIRECTION TO PLACE MAKE AROUND
STRATEGIC LAND USE DEVELOPMENT
STRIKES ME IS VERY DIFFERENT
FROM SOME OF THE CLAIMS THAT
ARE BEING MADE HERE AND IF
THEY'RE GOING TO BE MADE I JUST
THINK THEY NEED TO BE
SUPPORTED.
I'M NOT OPPOSED TO THEM
REEMERGING IN SOME OTHER FORM
THAT'S MORE SPECIFIC AND MORE
DATA BASED.
BUT IF I'M READING THE DOCUMENT
AND LOOKING AT THINGS THAT FEEL
LIKE SUBSTANCE TO ME THAT NEED
TO GO THAT DON'T FEEL RIGHT,
THOSE DON'T FEEL RIGHT AND I
FEEL LIKE THEY NEED TO GO IF IF
IF THERE NEEDS TO BE A
SUBSEQUENT CONVERSATION ABOUT
HOW TO FOLD A BETTER CONCEPT
THEN I'M HAPPY TO HAVE THAT.
>> THAT SOUNDS GOOD TO ME.
SO YES, WE CAN REMOVE FOR NOW
AND THEN LIKE I SAID THERE'S
GOING TO BE ROUNDS OF PETTIT'S
SO WE CAN TALK TO THE
CONSULTANTS ABOUT THE DATA ON
THIS AND REPRESENT JUST
REPRESENT IT TO YOU ALL IF
THAT'S OF INTEREST.
>> RIGHT.
NO CONCERNS RIGHT.
CAN WE GO ON TO TWENTY AND
TWENTY ONE.
OH RIGHT I SAY ABOUT EIGHTEEN
NINETEEN WE GAVE THEM THE NOTE
THAT THIS IS A BIT CHAOTIC AND
THAT WE WOULD LIKE IT TO BE
REDONE LIKE LIKE ONE THAT WE
GOT A WE GOT A CALL IT MAYBE
ADDING IN HERE WHICH IS MAYBE
GOING TO SOME OF THE STUFF THE
THING A MAP THAT ADDRESSES THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DENSITY
TAXABLE VALUE BECAUSE I THINK
ONE OF THE CONCERNS IS THAT
THERE IS WELL ONE QUESTION WE
GOT A QUESTION AND I DON'T KNOW
THE ANSWER TO THIS WHICH GOES
BACK PAGE SEVENTEEN THE
PARAGRAPH ALONG WITH TAX BASE
GROWTH, NEW COMMERCIAL GROWTH
PUBLICO BUSINESS IN
MISCONCEPTION IS COMMERCIAL
GROWTH INCLUDE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS.
RIGHT?
RIGHT.
SO I THINK THAT'S A REALLY THAT
NEEDS TO BE CLARIFIED WHAT
COMMERCIAL WHAT'S NOT AND WE
NEED TO SAY EXACTLY AND THEN WE
GOT COMMUNICATION FROM MR.
GOODMAN AND I THINK THERE ARE
OTHERS WHO ARE MAYBE
MISTRUSTFUL THIS RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN DENSITY AND TAXABLE
VALUE WHICH WOULD SHOW THAT
ACTUALLY, YOU KNOW, HIGH RISE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS GENERATE
MORE TAXABLE REVENUE THAN
COMMERCIAL OFFICE SPACE.
>> SO IF WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO
BUT WE COULD JUST BACK OFF THE
WHOLE THING.
BUT I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO
GO BACK THEN THEN I ACCURATE
DATA WOULD BE HELPFUL AND I
TOTALLY AGREE THAT THIS DIAGRAM
IS THANK YOU.
YEAH.
THIS WAS THE ONLY DIAGRAM THAT
I THOUGHT I COULD USE SOME WORK
AS I WAS MOVING THROUGH I WAS
LIKE OH YES.
>> IT WAS LIKE I'VE HEARD FROM
PEOPLE AT THE CITY OF YOU KNOW
LIKE AN APARTMENT AND OTHERS
THAT AN APARTMENT BUILDING DOES
NOT USE MORE RESOURCES BUT A
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOOD
ACTUALLY USES MORE RESOURCES
BECAUSE THERE'S MORE PAVING
MORE LINES OF UTILITIES MORE
AND SO LIKE WHAT IS HOUSING
AGAIN TO GET TO THAT POINT IS
HOUSING SINGLE FAMILY HOUSES OR
IS HOUSING AN APARTMENT
BUILDING DOWNTOWN WHICH
ACTUALLY FROM WHAT I'VE HEARD
USES FEWER RESOURCES THAN SAY
LANDSDOWNE OR SOMEPLACE LIKE
THAT.
THAT'S GENERALLY TRUE.
HEARD THE NAME RECENTLY.
>> WELL, OK, HOW ABOUT UM
MOVING TO TWENTY IN TWENTY ONE
SO HERE I'M GOING TO JUMP IN
BECAUSE I DO ONE THING THAT I
THINK IS CLEAR IN THE DATA BUT
PERHAPS IN THE NARRATIVE IS
SOMETHING HAPPENS IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY AND I CAN SEE
HISTORICALLY THAT THERE WERE
CONVERSATIONS THAT CONTINUE
FROM THE THIRD PARAGRAPH ON
PAGE TWENTY THAT START RIGHT
AROUND NINETEEN FIFTY SEVEN IS
OUR ZONING ORDINANCE CODIFIES A
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING AND THEY
CHANGE THE MINIMUM SIZES.
SO THE ADL HAS A WHOLE ARTICLE
BUT IT'S NOT TILL NINETEEN
SEVENTY WHERE THEY WERE
DISCUSSING MOVING THE MINIMUM
LOT SIZES FROM WHERE THEY ARE
TO ONE ACRE AND AT THE TIME THE
CITY HAD A VISION IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY TO GROW TO ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY THOUSAND BY NINETEEN
EIGHTY AND THAT GROWTH WAS NOT
OCCUR AND SO THERE'S SOMETHING
THAT HAPPENS IN THE 70S THAT
CHANGES THE ZONING THAT
CONSTRAINS THE DEVELOPMENT
OF HOUSING AND KEEPS US STUCK
HERE FOR FIFTY FIVE YEARS AND
IT'S MISSING FROM THIS
NARRATIVE AND SO IT'S JUST
SOMETHING I WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT
.
>> WE KNOW WORK BECAUSE I WAS
GOING SPREAD IF YOU COULD
SUMMARIZE WHAT I WE DON'T HAVE
TO DISCUSS IT.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE WE'RE
GETTING YOUR POINT CORRECTLY.
YOU UNDERSTAND?
YEAH.
THE QUESTION IS IS THERE IS AN
UNTOLD STORY OF SOMETHING HAVE
HAPPENED THAT SLOWED DOWN OUR
GROWTH COMPARED TO WHAT IT WAS
AT NIGHT AROUND 1970.
>> WHAT WAS IT?
YEAH, SO IT STARTS IN FIFTY
SEVEN AND IT CONTINUES BECAUSE
THE FIRST HISTORICAL SHIP
ARRIVES IN NINETEEN SEVENTY TWO
SO THAT THAT'S CONTRIBUTORY BUT
IT'S THERE THERE'S A LOT
OF STUFF VERY MINOR.
>> I'M GOING TO HEAR FROM THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT FOLKS
STARTING TOMORROW.
YEAH YEAH I'LL SEE WHAT WE CAN
FIND.
THEY INCREASED MINIMUM LOT SIZE
IS ONE OF THE KEY ONES WAS IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY IT'S THE ONE
THAT WE JUST DID TWO YEARS AGO
THE R TO A YEAH THAT WAS IN
EIGHTY AND IN 1963 THE ZONING
LAW HAD SAID LET'S UH LET'S
ALLOW THIS AND THEY HAD A VERY
MUCH SMALLER LOT SIZE MINIMUM
AND THEN IN 1980 THAT WAS
INCREASED FOR THOSE SIZES.
SO IT IS DEFINITELY GOING ON IN
THAT SPREAD.
YEAH WELL I KNOW OUR FORCES AND
I SHOULD KNOW THE DATES BUT I
DON'T REMEMBER IS THAT YOU KNOW
THAT ZONING CODE ISN'T IS IS
NOT TO CONFORM TO THE BUILT
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> THAT ZONING CODE IS TO
DEMOLISH OUR CURRENT OR THE
CURRENT BUILT INFRASTRUCTURE
WHICH IS WHY THERE EIGHTY FIVE
PERCENT ARE OUT OF COMPLIANCE.
>> IT IS NOT TO SAVE THE SMALL
NEIGHBORHOODS OR THE
NEIGHBORHOODS OF SMALL HOUSES.
IT IS TO GET RID OF THOSE TO DO
A DIFFERENT FORM AND WE'VE JUST
NOT DONE THAT IN MOST OF THOSE
ARE FORCING NEIGHBORHOODS BUT
BUT YEAH THERE WAS SOME YOU
KNOW SOMETHING IS HAPPENING TO
TRY TO CHANGE WHAT IS EXISTING
AND THAT JUST HASN'T HAPPENED
OVER THE YEARS FOR THE MOST
PART.
>> FOR SOME IT HAS IT COULD BE
TOO YOU'RE EXPLORING IT.
THERE WAS AN HOPE THAT THINGS
OPENED UP OUTSIDE VANDERBURGH
THAT A LOT OF DEVELOPMENT
STARTED HAPPENING OUT THERE AND
PULLING PEOPLE OUT AS WELL AS
THE CITY DOING THINGS TO PUSH
PEOPLE AWAY REALLY PUT THE
FRAME OF THIS PAGE TWENTY IS
ONE OF TWO THIS IS IN THIS
DOCUMENT WITH THE WORD
GENTRIFICATION IS USED UM, I
DON'T I DON'T LOVE THAT WORD.
I JUST THINK THAT THERE'S A LOT
WRAPPED UP IN THAT.
>> SO I WOULD EITHER DEFINE IT
OR JUST RESTATE IT COMPLETELY
AND TAKE IT OUT OF BOTH PLACES.
>> YEAH, BECAUSE I YOU CAN TALK
ABOUT DISPLACEMENT OR
DISPERSION AND THERE ARE THERE
ARE CURRENT ARTICLES THAT I'VE
LIVE HAVE DONE ESPECIALLY
AROUND KOREATOWN THAT SORT
OF EXPLAIN THE STORY SO THE
INABILITY TO GET HOME
IMPROVEMENT LOANS, THE CITY'S
SORT OF URBAN PLANNING
DEVELOPMENT OR REVITALIZATION
NARRATIVE DURING THIS PERIOD.
THERE ARE LOTS OF THINGS THAT
ARE HAPPENING IN THE CITY THAT
ON ONE SURFACE APPEAR RACE
NEUTRAL THEN HAVE A
DEMONSTRATIVE OUTSIZE EFFECT
ON
A SPECIFIC POPULATION WITHIN
THE CITY AND SO I KNOW MR.
LEONARD AND COUNCIL MEMBER DESH
AND YOU OF A STUDENT TRY TO DO
SOME RESEARCH TO SEE IF THE
CITY UTILIZED RIGHT REDLINING
MAPS BUT THE CITY WASN'T A
LARGE ENOUGH MUNICIPALITY FOR
THE GOVERNMENT TO CREATE THOSE
MAPS.
BUT THE INSURANCE MAPS TELL A
DIFFERENT STORY BECAUSE THEY
WERE NOT ABLE TO GET INSURANCE
FOR THE HOUSE WHICH MEANT THEY
WEREN'T ABLE TO GET A MORTGAGE
WEREN'T ABLE TO PURCHASE THE
FOR THE HOUSE WHICH MEANT THEY
HOUSE.
WEREN'T ABLE TO PURCHASE THE
SO WHILE THE CITY DOESN'T HAVE
HOUSE.
A HISTORY OF REDLINING THAT
SO WHILE THE CITY DOESN'T HAVE
OTHER MAJOR METROPOLITAN AREAS
A HISTORY OF REDLINING THAT
DO, IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THEY
OTHER MAJOR METROPOLITAN AREAS
DIDN'T HAVE SYSTEMS
DO, IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THEY
OF EXCLUSION THAT PREVENTED
DIDN'T HAVE SYSTEMS
BLACKS FROM OBTAINING WHAT
OF EXCLUSION THAT PREVENTED
COMMISSIONER MARTIN HAS BEEN
BLACKS FROM OBTAINING WHAT
TALKING ABOUT SINGLE FAMILY
COMMISSIONER MARTIN HAS BEEN
HOMES TO SORT OF PARTICIPATE IN
TALKING ABOUT SINGLE FAMILY
THOSE ESSENTIAL BENEFICIAL
HOMES TO SORT OF PARTICIPATE IN
ASPECTS OF THEIR THEIR LIFE AND
THOSE ESSENTIAL BENEFICIAL
SO THAT HAS HAD AN IMPACT BOTH
ASPECTS OF THEIR THEIR LIFE AND
ON THE POPULATION BUT IT'S ALSO
SO THAT HAS HAD AN IMPACT BOTH
HAD A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE
ON THE POPULATION BUT IT'S ALSO
BLACK POPULATION WITHIN THE
HAD A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE
CITY AND YOU CAN SEE IT IN THE
BLACK POPULATION WITHIN THE
DATA IT LIKE FROM NINETEEN
CITY AND YOU CAN SEE IT IN THE
FIFTY SEVEN TILL IT FLATLINES.
DATA IT LIKE FROM NINETEEN
SOMETHING IS CONSTRAINING BUT
FIFTY SEVEN TILL IT FLATLINES.
THE CITY IS STILL GROWING AND
SOMETHING IS CONSTRAINING BUT
THE COUNTY IS GROWING.
THE CITY IS STILL GROWING AND
>> SO YOU KNOW SOMETHING IS
THE COUNTY IS GROWING.
HAPPENING.
>> SO YOU KNOW SOMETHING IS
>> OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS JUST
HAPPENING.
TO TERMINOLOGICAL POINTS I
>> OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS JUST
THINK IF WE MEAN DETACHED
TO TERMINOLOGICAL POINTS I
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING WE MIGHT
THINK IF WE MEAN DETACHED
WANT TO SPECIFY THAT BECAUSE
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING WE MIGHT
THERE ARE OTHER FORMS OF SINGLE
WANT TO SPECIFY THAT BECAUSE
FAMILY HOUSING THAT ARE NOT
THERE ARE OTHER FORMS OF SINGLE
DETACHED AND THAT WOULD REQUIRE
FAMILY HOUSING THAT ARE NOT
ZONING CHANGES TO MOST OF OUR
DETACHED AND THAT WOULD REQUIRE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS IN ORDER
ZONING CHANGES TO MOST OF OUR
TO ENABLE THEM.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS IN ORDER
AND SO I THINK THE MODEL THAT
TO ENABLE THEM.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THAT GETS
AND SO I THINK THE MODEL THAT
WRITTEN IN STONE IS THAT IT'S
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THAT GETS
ONE THING PER PARCEL AND IT'S A
WRITTEN IN STONE IS THAT IT'S
DETACHED THING.
ONE THING PER PARCEL AND IT'S A
>> SO AND THEN THE OTHER THING
DETACHED THING.
IS I DON'T HONESTLY KNOW WHAT
>> SO AND THEN THE OTHER THING
CONCENTRATED CODE ENFORCEMENT
IS I DON'T HONESTLY KNOW WHAT
IS A IT'S IN THE SECOND KEY
CONCENTRATED CODE ENFORCEMENT
FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO THE
IS A IT'S IN THE SECOND KEY
DISINTEGRATION OF THESE BLACK
FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO THE
NEIGHBORHOODS INCLUDE
DISINTEGRATION OF THESE BLACK
CONCENTRATED CODE ENFORCEMENT
NEIGHBORHOODS INCLUDE
IN THE 1960S AND LIKE THAT PART
CONCENTRATED CODE ENFORCEMENT
OF THAT WAS THE URBAN RENEWAL
IN THE 1960S AND LIKE THAT PART
AND MODEL CITIES.
OF THAT WAS THE URBAN RENEWAL
THOSE ARE ACTUALLY FEDERALLY
AND MODEL CITIES.
FUNDED FEDERAL FUNDS THAT WERE
THOSE ARE ACTUALLY FEDERALLY
BROUGHT IN TO IN PART INCREASED
FUNDED FEDERAL FUNDS THAT WERE
CODE ENFORCEMENT IN A SPECIFIC
BROUGHT IN TO IN PART INCREASED
GEOGRAPHY.
CODE ENFORCEMENT IN A SPECIFIC
OH SO LIKE IT'S A RACE SORT
GEOGRAPHY.
OF A RACE IN THE PROFILING
OH SO LIKE IT'S A RACE SORT
CODE PROFILING.
OF A RACE IN THE PROFILING
IT'S SORT OF LIKE WHEN YOU'RE
CODE PROFILING.
ON A CROWDED CRIME STATISTICS
IT'S SORT OF LIKE WHEN YOU'RE
ARE SPECIFIC TO NEIGHBORHOODS
ON A CROWDED CRIME STATISTICS
BECAUSE IF THEY ARE BEING
ARE SPECIFIC TO NEIGHBORHOODS
POLICED THE POLICE ARE THERE SO
BECAUSE IF THEY ARE BEING
THEY ARE FINDING CRIMES BUT
POLICED THE POLICE ARE THERE SO
POLICE DON'T PATROL MY
THEY ARE FINDING CRIMES BUT
SUBDIVISION.
POLICE DON'T PATROL MY
SO THE CRIMINALITY THAT'S
SUBDIVISION.
PRESENT IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
SO THE CRIMINALITY THAT'S
DOESN'T SHOW UP IN THOSE
PRESENT IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
REPORTS.
DOESN'T SHOW UP IN THOSE
THAT'S WHAT IT IS THAT KIND
REPORTS.
OF ENFORCEMENT.
THAT'S WHAT IT IS THAT KIND
>> YEP.
OF ENFORCEMENT.
SO LET'S GIVE IT AN EXAMPLE.
>> YEP.
SO WHAT KIND YOU KNOW I MEAN WE
SO LET'S GIVE IT AN EXAMPLE.
KNOW ABOUT THE DRIVING YOUR
SO WHAT KIND YOU KNOW I MEAN WE
TAILLIGHT IS OUT BLAH BLAH IF
KNOW ABOUT THE DRIVING YOUR
IF THIS IS RESIDENTIAL
TAILLIGHT IS OUT BLAH BLAH IF
CODE ENFORCEMENT I THINK IT
IF THIS IS RESIDENTIAL
WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL TO JUST
CODE ENFORCEMENT I THINK IT
PUT THAT IN A WAY THAT SOMEONE
WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL TO JUST
WOULD UNDERSTAND.
PUT THAT IN A WAY THAT SOMEONE
YEAH, AND YES, A SITE WOULD BE
WOULD UNDERSTAND.
GREAT BUT I LITERALLY MEAN BY
YEAH, AND YES, A SITE WOULD BE
DEFINITION JUST MAKE IT YEAH.
GREAT BUT I LITERALLY MEAN BY
>> WOO HOO!
DEFINITION JUST MAKE IT YEAH.
WE'RE ON THE CHAPTER TWO ONE
>> WOO HOO!
VERY LONG ONE CHAPTERS ARE
WE'RE ON THE CHAPTER TWO ONE
SHORTER AND THEY'RE FEATURED
VERY LONG ONE CHAPTERS ARE
NICELY ON THIS AFTER WE TALK
SHORTER AND THEY'RE FEATURED
ABOUT THIS PHOTO I HAVE MY OWN
NICELY ON THIS AFTER WE TALK
PHOTO THAT'S LATER IN THE
ABOUT THIS PHOTO I HAVE MY OWN
DOCUMENT THAT I WANT TO WORK
PHOTO THAT'S LATER IN THE
ON.
DOCUMENT THAT I WANT TO WORK
HOW MANY TIMES DO YOU SHOW UP
ON.
IN THE PAGE WHERE YOU ARE YOU
HOW MANY TIMES DO YOU SHOW UP
DOG LOOKING RIGHT AT THE CAMERA
IN THE PAGE WHERE YOU ARE YOU
YOU SAW ME IN ANN ARBOR.
DOG LOOKING RIGHT AT THE CAMERA
OK, LET'S KEEP MOVING.
YOU SAW ME IN ANN ARBOR.
>> THE DOG IS OK.
OK, LET'S KEEP MOVING.
SO I HAD A GENERAL QUESTION FOR
>> THE DOG IS OK.
YOU.
SO I HAD A GENERAL QUESTION FOR
I WANT TO START HERE.
YOU.
I THINK YOU COULD START US OFF
I WANT TO START HERE.
OF JUST THIS CHAPTER IN GENERAL
I THINK YOU COULD START US OFF
.
OF JUST THIS CHAPTER IN GENERAL
>> DOES THIS DO YOU SUPPORT HOW
.
THEY ENGAGEMENT PROCESS AND
>> DOES THIS DO YOU SUPPORT HOW
RESULTS ARE PRESENTED MEANING
THEY ENGAGEMENT PROCESS AND
WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE MORE
RESULTS ARE PRESENTED MEANING
DETAIL OR DIFFERENT DETAILS OR
WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE MORE
ARE YOU HAPPY TOWARDS THE END?
DETAIL OR DIFFERENT DETAILS OR
THERE'S THOSE MAJOR TAKEAWAYS
ARE YOU HAPPY TOWARDS THE END?
AS THE SUMMARY OF WHAT WE'VE
THERE'S THOSE MAJOR TAKEAWAYS
HEARD.
AS THE SUMMARY OF WHAT WE'VE
>> UM, I NEED MORE DETAIL.
HEARD.
I NEED APPENDICES.
>> UM, I NEED MORE DETAIL.
UM, I FEEL LIKE SOME OF THE I
I NEED APPENDICES.
DON'T KNOW WHAT MORE I WANT TO
UM, I FEEL LIKE SOME OF THE I
KNOW LIKE HOW THEY CAME TO
DON'T KNOW WHAT MORE I WANT TO
THESE CONCLUSIONS THEY PUT IN
KNOW LIKE HOW THEY CAME TO
HERE.
THESE CONCLUSIONS THEY PUT IN
I FEEL LIKE I DON'T KNOW
HERE.
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE THE THINGS
I FEEL LIKE I DON'T KNOW
WE'VE BEEN HEARING OVER THE
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE THE THINGS
PAST SIX WEEKS AND I'M NOT
WE'VE BEEN HEARING OVER THE
CONDONING A LOT OF IT AND I
PAST SIX WEEKS AND I'M NOT
KNOW I'M GETTING SEE THIS IS
CONDONING A LOT OF IT AND I
THE PROBLEM REALLY TOM, I A I'M
KNOW I'M GETTING SEE THIS IS
WONDERING IF THERE IS IS DATA
THE PROBLEM REALLY TOM, I A I'M
THAT SHOWS THAT PEOPLE WERE
WONDERING IF THERE IS IS DATA
LIKE OH, ANYTHING TO CHANGE
THAT SHOWS THAT PEOPLE WERE
BECAUSE THAT'S MISSING.
LIKE OH, ANYTHING TO CHANGE
I FEEL LIKE SOME OF THE DATA IS
BECAUSE THAT'S MISSING.
CHERRY PICKED TO TELL A VERY
I FEEL LIKE SOME OF THE DATA IS
SPECIFIC NARRATIVE.
CHERRY PICKED TO TELL A VERY
WELL, LET ME LET ME JUST BE
SPECIFIC NARRATIVE.
CLEAR ABOUT OUR ENGAGEMENT.
WELL, LET ME LET ME JUST BE
WE DIDN'T ASK PEOPLE DO YOU
CLEAR ABOUT OUR ENGAGEMENT.
WANT TO SEE DEVELOPMENT OR NOT?
WE DIDN'T ASK PEOPLE DO YOU
WE STARTED WITH THE PREMISE
WANT TO SEE DEVELOPMENT OR NOT?
THAT THIS PLAN IS TO COORDINATE
WE STARTED WITH THE PREMISE
DEVELOPMENT OVER TWENTY FIVE
THAT THIS PLAN IS TO COORDINATE
YEARS SO WE DON'T HAVE ANY
DEVELOPMENT OVER TWENTY FIVE
EVIDENCE OF PEOPLE SAYING I
YEARS SO WE DON'T HAVE ANY
DON'T WANT ANY OF THIS BECAUSE
EVIDENCE OF PEOPLE SAYING I
WE DIDN'T START WITH THAT BUSH
DON'T WANT ANY OF THIS BECAUSE
HAD THE QUESTION SOMEWHERE LOOK
WE DIDN'T START WITH THAT BUSH
,MAYBE THAT'S AN OPTION
HAD THE QUESTION SOMEWHERE LOOK
BECAUSE I DIDN'T ASK THE
,MAYBE THAT'S AN OPTION
QUESTIONS THAT YOU DID ASK.
BECAUSE I DIDN'T ASK THE
>> OH THERE THEY ARE WHERE SEE
QUESTIONS THAT YOU DID ASK.
THERE'S NO AGE TWENTY SIX ON
>> OH THERE THEY ARE WHERE SEE
THE LEFT IS IN THOSE QUESTIONS.
THERE'S NO AGE TWENTY SIX ON
>> I MEAN SO HERE'S HERE'S THE
THE LEFT IS IN THOSE QUESTIONS.
CHALLENGE OF THIS IS WE DID
>> I MEAN SO HERE'S HERE'S THE
SEVERAL DIFFERENT EVENTS AND
CHALLENGE OF THIS IS WE DID
THEN AS WE COLLECTED DATA WE
SEVERAL DIFFERENT EVENTS AND
STARTED ASKING DIFFERENT
THEN AS WE COLLECTED DATA WE
QUESTIONS SO DIFFERENT PEOPLE
STARTED ASKING DIFFERENT
ANSWER DIFFERENT QUESTIONS
QUESTIONS SO DIFFERENT PEOPLE
ACROSS THE CITY AT DIFFERENT
ANSWER DIFFERENT QUESTIONS
TIMES.
ACROSS THE CITY AT DIFFERENT
SO THESE ARE GENERALLY
TIMES.
QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE ASKED.
SO THESE ARE GENERALLY
I MEAN THAT GENERALLY THESE ARE
QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE ASKED.
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE
I MEAN THAT GENERALLY THESE ARE
ASKED.
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE
UM, I MEAN THIS REPRESENTS WHAT
ASKED.
YOU DID AND SO YES, FOR ME I
UM, I MEAN THIS REPRESENTS WHAT
FEEL LIKE THIS IS THE
YOU DID AND SO YES, FOR ME I
APPROPRIATE PLACE TO REPORT.
FEEL LIKE THIS IS THE
HERE'S WHAT YOU DID YOU ASK
APPROPRIATE PLACE TO REPORT.
THESE QUESTIONS.
HERE'S WHAT YOU DID YOU ASK
THESE ARE THE ANSWERS THAT YOU
THESE QUESTIONS.
GOT.
THESE ARE THE ANSWERS THAT YOU
I THINK WE ARE NOW GETTING NEW
GOT.
FEEDBACK TO THE PROCESS WHICH
I THINK WE ARE NOW GETTING NEW
WE CAN FIGURE OUT HOW WE WANT
FEEDBACK TO THE PROCESS WHICH
TO INCLUDE BUT I DON'T THINK IT
WE CAN FIGURE OUT HOW WE WANT
NEGATES THAT THESE ARE THE
TO INCLUDE BUT I DON'T THINK IT
QUESTIONS THAT YOU ASKED IN
NEGATES THAT THESE ARE THE
THESE ARE THE ANSWERS THAT YOU
QUESTIONS THAT YOU ASKED IN
RECEIVED THAT I THINK TO CHANGE
THESE ARE THE ANSWERS THAT YOU
THAT INVALIDATES THE PROCESS
RECEIVED THAT I THINK TO CHANGE
WHICH I DON'T I DON'T SUPPORT.
THAT INVALIDATES THE PROCESS
THAT IS NOT TO SAY THAT PEOPLE
WHICH I DON'T I DON'T SUPPORT.
WHO ARE NOW EITHER BECAUSE THEY
THAT IS NOT TO SAY THAT PEOPLE
HAVE BECOME AWARE OR BECAUSE
WHO ARE NOW EITHER BECAUSE THEY
THEY ARE TUNING IN
HAVE BECOME AWARE OR BECAUSE
SELF-SELECTING INTO IT WHAT
THEY ARE TUNING IN
THEIR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT TO BE
SELF-SELECTING INTO IT WHAT
CONSIDERED.
THEIR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT TO BE
WE HAVE CREATED MECHANISMS FOR
CONSIDERED.
THAT PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT TO BE
WE HAVE CREATED MECHANISMS FOR
CONSIDERED BUT I DON'T THINK IT
THAT PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT TO BE
CHANGES HOW YOU ARRIVED CORRECT
CONSIDERED BUT I DON'T THINK IT
THE DOCUMENT HERE SPECIFICALLY
CHANGES HOW YOU ARRIVED CORRECT
WHAT I SAID IS THAT WE HEARD
THE DOCUMENT HERE SPECIFICALLY
WE'VE HEARD FROM PEOPLE OVER
WHAT I SAID IS THAT WE HEARD
AND OVER THAT THERE WAS NOT
WE'VE HEARD FROM PEOPLE OVER
SOME OPTION IN THE SURVEY TO
AND OVER THAT THERE WAS NOT
SAY THAT YOU WANT SINGLE FAMILY
SOME OPTION IN THE SURVEY TO
TO STAY SINGLE FAMILY AND NEVER
SAY THAT YOU WANT SINGLE FAMILY
BE CHANGED AND NEVER ALLOWED
TO STAY SINGLE FAMILY AND NEVER
DUPLEXES LIKE THAT.
BE CHANGED AND NEVER ALLOWED
I CAN'T REMEMBER IF THAT'S
DUPLEXES LIKE THAT.
TRUE.
I CAN'T REMEMBER IF THAT'S
I JUST LIKE TO SEE LIKE WHAT
TRUE.
THE SURVEY QUESTIONS LIKE CAN I
I JUST LIKE TO SEE LIKE WHAT
GO IN AN APPENDIX?
THE SURVEY QUESTIONS LIKE CAN I
OH, THAT COULD GO INTO AN
GO IN AN APPENDIX?
APPENDIX.
OH, THAT COULD GO INTO AN
AND THE SURVEY RESULTS ARE
APPENDIX.
POSTED ON THE ENGAGEMENT WITH
AND THE SURVEY RESULTS ARE
THE NEW THE NEW SITE THAT WE
POSTED ON THE ENGAGEMENT WITH
CREATED THE SURVEY RESULTS ARE
THE NEW THE NEW SITE THAT WE
I WONDER JUST UNDERSCORE THAT
CREATED THE SURVEY RESULTS ARE
BECAUSE ONE OF THE PEOPLE VERY
I WONDER JUST UNDERSCORE THAT
BEGINNING MEETING THE PUBLIC
BECAUSE ONE OF THE PEOPLE VERY
ASKED ABOUT THE SURVEY DATA
BEGINNING MEETING THE PUBLIC
BEING AVAILABLE.
ASKED ABOUT THE SURVEY DATA
THE SURVEY DATA IS AVAILABLE.
BEING AVAILABLE.
CAN WE ARE LISTENING DATA IS
THE SURVEY DATA IS AVAILABLE.
AVAILABLE WE BECAUSE THEY'RE
CAN WE ARE LISTENING DATA IS
LISTENING BUT YOU SEE IT HERE
AVAILABLE WE BECAUSE THEY'RE
TO PUT IT EVERYWHERE.
LISTENING BUT YOU SEE IT HERE
>> BUT I ALSO THINK, YOU KNOW,
TO PUT IT EVERYWHERE.
LOOKING SLIDE 30 AND I'M NOT
>> BUT I ALSO THINK, YOU KNOW,
TRYING TO JUMP AROUND BUT LIKE
LOOKING SLIDE 30 AND I'M NOT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE SECTION
TRYING TO JUMP AROUND BUT LIKE
IT DOES HAVE THE DO YOU WANT TO
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE SECTION
SEE HOW DO YOU WANT TO SEE YOUR
IT DOES HAVE THE DO YOU WANT TO
CHANGE OR NOT CHANGE?
SEE HOW DO YOU WANT TO SEE YOUR
AND THERE'S A FULL BREAKDOWN
CHANGE OR NOT CHANGE?
OF KIND OF WHERE FOLKS LANDED
AND THERE'S A FULL BREAKDOWN
SO THAT THAT WAS JUST FOR
OF KIND OF WHERE FOLKS LANDED
GUNTOWN.
SO THAT THAT WAS JUST FOR
IS THAT GIWA NEIGHBORHOODS?
GUNTOWN.
YEAH, MY NEIGHBORHOOD IS NOT
IS THAT GIWA NEIGHBORHOODS?
HERE.
YEAH, MY NEIGHBORHOOD IS NOT
>> I'M LOOKING AT IT.
HERE.
YES.
>> I'M LOOKING AT IT.
SO A LOT OF IT SO SO THE
YES.
FEEDBACK THAT'S IN HERE JUST TO
SO A LOT OF IT SO SO THE
CLARIFY THESE ARE THE FORMAL
FEEDBACK THAT'S IN HERE JUST TO
ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS THAT WE
CLARIFY THESE ARE THE FORMAL
HELD.
ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS THAT WE
SO YOU ARE CORRECT IN THAT ALL
HELD.
THE PEOPLE THAT HAVE COMING TO
SO YOU ARE CORRECT IN THAT ALL
PUBLIC COMMENT THIS WAS
THE PEOPLE THAT HAVE COMING TO
COMMISSIONER NORTON'S COMMENT
PUBLIC COMMENT THIS WAS
EARLIER THOSE HAVE NOT BEEN
COMMISSIONER NORTON'S COMMENT
SYSTEMATICALLY CATEGORIZED AND
EARLIER THOSE HAVE NOT BEEN
INCORPORATED HERE.
SYSTEMATICALLY CATEGORIZED AND
YES.
INCORPORATED HERE.
SO, UM, OUR ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS
YES.
WE DID JOINT SESSIONS WITH THE
SO, UM, OUR ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS
D.A. WHO'S ALSO RIGHT.
WE DID JOINT SESSIONS WITH THE
REWRITING THEIR DEVELOPMENT
D.A. WHO'S ALSO RIGHT.
PLAN.
REWRITING THEIR DEVELOPMENT
SO I THINK THAT QUESTION IS
PLAN.
MORE SPECIFIC TO DOWNTOWN OR
SO I THINK THAT QUESTION IS
ADJACENT SURROUNDING DOWNTOWN
MORE SPECIFIC TO DOWNTOWN OR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
ADJACENT SURROUNDING DOWNTOWN
YEAH.
NEIGHBORHOODS.
AND I BUT I DO WANT TO SAY ON
YEAH.
PAGE THIRTY ONE YOU DO SHOW ALL
AND I BUT I DO WANT TO SAY ON
OF THE CITY AND WHERE THEY ARE
PAGE THIRTY ONE YOU DO SHOW ALL
DOTS BECAUSE THERE WERE ALL
OF THE CITY AND WHERE THEY ARE
CITY MAPS AVAILABLE ENGAGEMENTS
DOTS BECAUSE THERE WERE ALL
I WENT TO THEM, I SAW THE MAPS
CITY MAPS AVAILABLE ENGAGEMENTS
SO YOU CAN SEE IN MY
I WENT TO THEM, I SAW THE MAPS
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS LANDSDOWN
SO YOU CAN SEE IN MY
THERE IS SOME GREEN DOTS OVER
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS LANDSDOWN
THERE NOT THAT PEOPLE
THERE IS SOME GREEN DOTS OVER
PARTICIPATED FROM THERE THAT'S
THERE NOT THAT PEOPLE
WHERE DO YOU WANT WHERE THEY
PARTICIPATED FROM THERE THAT'S
WANT TO SEE JUST MOSTLY LIKE
WHERE DO YOU WANT WHERE THEY
CORPORATE BUT MY NEIGHBORHOOD
WANT TO SEE JUST MOSTLY LIKE
IS THAT IT'S A TRIANGLE ALL THE
CORPORATE BUT MY NEIGHBORHOOD
WAY TO NINETY FOUR AND THAT IS
IS THAT IT'S A TRIANGLE ALL THE
A PRIMARILY SINGLE FAMILY
WAY TO NINETY FOUR AND THAT IS
DETACHED SINGLE FAMILY
A PRIMARILY SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD EXCEPT
DETACHED SINGLE FAMILY
FOR THE APARTMENTS THAT ARE
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD EXCEPT
RIGHT AT NINETY FOUR.
FOR THE APARTMENTS THAT ARE
SO THE FACT THAT THERE IS SOME
RIGHT AT NINETY FOUR.
INDICATION TO SAY HEY YOU KNOW
SO THE FACT THAT THERE IS SOME
HERE WHICH IS THE AREA PUBLIC
INDICATION TO SAY HEY YOU KNOW
SCHOOL AND ACROSS THE STREET
HERE WHICH IS THE AREA PUBLIC
FROM MY HOUSE THAT THEY WANT
SCHOOL AND ACROSS THE STREET
THE DEVELOPMENT ON BUT THAT'S
FROM MY HOUSE THAT THEY WANT
NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
THE DEVELOPMENT ON BUT THAT'S
SO YOU JUST SAY THAT THERE IS
NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
SOME DATA WE'RE PUTTING THAT
SO YOU JUST SAY THAT THERE IS
OUT TO YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD
SOME DATA WE'RE PUTTING THAT
NECESSAR THE RESIDENTS IN YOUR
OUT TO YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD
NEIGHBORHOOD.
NECESSAR THE RESIDENTS IN YOUR
>> NO, NO, NO, NO.
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE WE DIDN'T TRACK THAT.
>> NO, NO, NO, NO.
YEAH.
WE WE DIDN'T TRACK THAT.
HOW CAN I ASK THE SURVEY WE'RE
YEAH.
GETTING LOTS OF YOU SHOULD HAVE
HOW CAN I ASK THE SURVEY WE'RE
DONE A SCIENTIFICALLY VALID
GETTING LOTS OF YOU SHOULD HAVE
SURVEY THREE POSTCARDS TO
DONE A SCIENTIFICALLY VALID
EVERYBODY.
SURVEY THREE POSTCARDS TO
HOW DID YOU DO THE SERVICE?
EVERYBODY.
HOW DID HOW WERE THEY
HOW DID YOU DO THE SERVICE?
DISTRIBUTED?
HOW DID HOW WERE THEY
THEY WERE NOT SCIENTIFIC.
DISTRIBUTED?
WE DID AN ONLINE SURVEY.
THEY WERE NOT SCIENTIFIC.
WE DISTRIBUTE IT WIDELY.
WE DID AN ONLINE SURVEY.
WE DID SOCIAL MEDIA.
WE DISTRIBUTE IT WIDELY.
WE DID PRESS RELEASES.
WE DID SOCIAL MEDIA.
I THINK IT WAS FEATURED BY
WE DID PRESS RELEASES.
BOTTOMLY WFMU OR YEAH THAT'S
I THINK IT WAS FEATURED BY
PART OF OUR SOCIAL MEDIA IS
BOTTOMLY WFMU OR YEAH THAT'S
NEXT DOOR WHICH REACHES LIKE
EVERY NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE CITY.
>> SO IT WAS A VOLUNTARY
SURVEY.
>> IT WAS WIDELY DISTRIBUTED.
IT WAS CORRECT.
UM YEAH.
THIS CITY VERY RARELY DOES A
SCIENTIFIC SURVEY AND I'M NOT
ARGUING THAT THEY SHOULD THINK
WE SHOULD ADDRESS THAT.
I MEAN I THINK WHAT YOU SAID
EARLIER WE STARTED OFF WITH
THIS WHOLE PROCESS STARTED OFF.
WE DEVELOPING A PLAN FOR
MANAGING GROWTH IN THE NEXT
TWENTY FIVE YEARS.
THE QUESTIONS THAT WERE ASKED
IN THE WAY THEY WERE FRAMED
CHANGED OVER THE COURSE OF THE
PROCESS IN RESPONSE TO THE
FEEDBACK WE GOT THOSE WOULD AND
WE DID SURVEYS THAT WERE
VOLUNTARY SURVEYS THAT WERE
DISTRIBUTED WIDELY THROUGH
MULTIPLE CHANNELS.
>> OK, THAT WOULD HELP EXPLAIN
I THINK THAT WOULD AT LEAST
EXPLAIN BETTER TO FOLKS HOW
THIS WAS ALL CONSTRUCTED AND
WHY THINGS CHANGED OVER TIME
BECAUSE OF UNDERSTANDING YOU
NEED TO SPEAK TO YOU ARE TRYING
TO TALK.
IS THAT HELPFUL?
I THINK THOSE ARE GOOD POINTS
TO PULL THE EVERYONE'S NODDING
ALONG TO THAT.
>> THAT'S FINE.
I SUPPORT THAT PERSON.
>> I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT THE
CONTRADICTION ON THIRTY ONE AT
LEAST WHAT READS TO ME AS A
CONTRADICTION AND MAYBE I'M
MISSING SOMETHING BUT 73
PERCENT OF PARTICIPLE AND SAID
THEY WERE IN SUPPORT OF GENTLE
DENSITY THROUGHOUT THE CITY
THROUGHOUT THE CITY UP TO FOUR
UNITS BUT IT'S SITTING NEXT TO
THIS REMARKABLE TO ME MAP THIS
ONE IS CALLED WHAT THE THIS HAS
A NAME.
>> THIS MAP HAD A BUILD UP MAP
OR I FORGET WHAT WHAT IT WAS
CALLED ENGAGEMENT.
>> BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THIS MAP
THAT YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT A
MOMENT AGO, COMMISSIONER, WHICH
THERE ARE A LOT OF GREEN AND
GOLD DOTS ON ARTERIALS.
>> THERE'S ALMOST NOTHING IN
SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED HOUSING
NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> I MEAN THERE ARE A FEW
SCATTERED YOU KNOW, BUILD UP A
LITTLE IN THOSE BUT MANAM IN I
MEAN YEAH THERE'S PLYMOUTH
ROAD.
>> YEP.
BUT ALL OF THE YOU KNOW THE THE
THE PART IN WARD ONE WHERE I
LIVE THERE JUST VERY FEW DOTS
HERE AND THIS JUST DOESN'T IT'S
NOT WHAT PEOPLE SAY AND THEN
WHAT THEY DO WHEN THEY LOOK AT
A MAP IS DIFFERENT AND SO IT IS
INTERESTING THAT I I MEAN I
WROTE GUYS ABOUT THIS BUT I
FEEL AS THOUGH I MEAN I'M
HAVING THIS SORT OF SAME SENSE
THAT COMMISSIONER NORTON IS
HAVING WHICH IS THAT THERE ARE
THERE THERE ARE WAYS IN WHICH
WE WILL SEE THINGS.
BUT THEN WHEN YOU ASK US WHERE
WE WANT TO PUT IT, WE ARE NOT
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT WE'VE SAID
BECAUSE WE ARE EXEMPTING PARTS
OF THE CITY.
>> WHEN YOU SAY WE DO YOU MEAN
WE IN OUR BRAINS WE HAD OUR
BRAINS.
YES, WE ARE HUMANS AND THERE
ARE THINGS THAT WE REALLY WANT
BUT WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO THE
MAP OR WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO
THE ACTUAL SITE WE SAY I LOVE
THAT BUT I REALLY DON'T WANT IT
NEXT TO ME BUT I THINK IT'S A
GREAT IDEA AND I FEEL LIKE THIS
MAP KIND OF SHOWS THAT AND I
DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S BAD.
I'M NOT TRYING TO BE JUDGMENTAL
WHICH IS WHY I'M USING THE WORD
WE BUT I THINK THAT IT THAT THE
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT BROUGHT FORTH
AN ISSUE IN THIS KIND OF CHANGE
WHICH IS GETTING VOICED BY
PEOPLE WHO FEEL THAT THEY'RE
NOT BEING HEARD AND THAT THEY
WEREN'T REPRESENTED.
TRUE.
BUT I THINK THEIR VIEW IS
BEAUTIFULLY BECAUSE THIS MAP
AND SO I DON'T I THINK I'M
GOING TO STOP THERE BUT I KIND
OF HAVE TO FOLLOW US TO THAT
JUST FOR A SECOND.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS HAS BEEN
TRYING TO GET IN.
I WILL TALK ABOUT THIS BUT SO
GO AHEAD.
IT'S MORE ABOUT WHAT'S NEXT AND
THEN YOU CAN GO OK, THANK YOU.
>> I JUST WANTED TO ADD THAT
THIS IS THE NATURE OF PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT.
IF YOU NOTICE THAT EVERYONE
SAYS THAT THEY AGREE WITH THE
THE VALUES EVERYONE AGREES WITH
AFFORDABILITY AND VERY FEW
PEOPLE WANT IT NEAR THEM.
>> THIS IS A HISTORY OF NIMBY
IS PLANNING IN THE US SO THAT'S
SOMETHING FOR US TO CONSIDER.
I WILL ALSO SAY TO PEOPLE THAT
HAVE SAID THEY HAVE NOT BEEN
HEARD MAYBE THEY DID NOT ATTEND
OUR ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS BUT
THEY HAVE BEEN HEARD THAT
PUBLIC COMMENT SO THEIR INPUT
IS STILL INCLUDED I WOULD SAY.
>> YEAH, WELL AND SO I THINK
THAT THAT IS A LOVELY
TRANSITION TO SAY THINKING
THROUGH HOW THIS IS GOING TO BE
INCORPORATED AND WHAT THIS
LOOKS LIKE FOR THE ENGAGEMENT
SESSIONS THAT WE HAVE IN THE
COURSE OF THE NEXT MONTH LIKE
ARE WE DOING THAT IS
PARTICULARLY THIS WEEK ON PAGE
THIRTY ONE LIKE I'M NOT I AM
NOT SUGGESTING THAT WE DO IT
AGAIN AND THE IDEA THAT WE
HEARD FROM FOUR HUNDRED PEOPLE
THERE'S FOUR HUNDRED STICKERS
ON THIS MAP OUT OF A CITY
OF ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
THOUSAND PEOPLE A HUNDRED
TWENTY THREE THOUSAND PEOPLE
LIKE I THINK THAT THAT I THINK
THAT THAT'S ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT I HAD ABOUT IT
AND INCLUDING IT AND AND JUST
THINKING ABOUT HOW THESE LATER
STAGE NOW THAT WE HAVE A DRAFT
THAT WE ARE STILL ENGAGING IN
WILL BE INCORPORATED INTO PART
OF WHAT OUR PROCESS WAS IN
DRAFTING THIS PLAN.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT LOOKS
LIKE LIKE YOU OBVIOUSLY CAN'T
WRITE ABOUT THE STUFF THAT YOU
HAVEN'T HEARD YET WHEN YOU PUT
OUT THE DRAFT WOULD I GET TO
THE CHICKEN AND EGG THING?
BUT I I THINK THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO GET THAT QUESTION AND SO
KNOWING HOW IS IT TOO LATE TO
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO ASK YOU WHY THAT
THAT MAP THOUGH AND I HOW DO I
HOW DO I PUT MY ON THAT MAP?
AND SO ANYWAY I JUST THINK I
DON'T OBVIOUSLY I DON'T HAVE A
SOLUTION.
>> I JUST THINK IT'S A QUESTION
YOU'RE GOING TO HEAR HERE.
WELL, I AM WORKING ON ANSWERING
NO YOU GO FIRST AFTER I AM
WORKING ON MATERIALS FOR THE
NEXT ENGAGEMENT SESSION IT IS
GOING TO BE LARGELY FOCUSED ON
THE GOALS AND GETTING FEEDBACK
ON THE GOALS AND THE FUTURE
NEEDS MET BECAUSE THAT IS NOW
NEW INFORMATION TO IT TO THE
PUBLIC AND I THINK IT WILL ALSO
HELP YOU ALL SEE TO WHAT EXTENT
PEOPLE AGREE WITH NOT ONLY THE
GOALS BUT TO WHAT EXTENT THEY
FEEL OUR STRATEGIES MEET OUR
GOALS BECAUSE LIKE I SAID,
EVERYONE SEEMS TO AGREE WITH
THE VALUES RIGHT BEFORE ABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY, EQUITY, WHAT
THE CONFLICT IS AT THE HOW AND
THE WHERE.
AND I DO THINK THAT THERE'S
ALWAYS GOING TO BE SOME SOME
CONFLICT.
THERE IS PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT IS
NOT A PERFECT PROCESS.
RIGHT.
I MEAN WE FEEL PROUD OF THE
THIRTY ONE HUNDRED PEOPLE WHO
TOOK THE SURVEY AND PEOPLE ARE
ALSO RIGHTLY POINTING OUT IT'S
A VERY SMALL PERCENTAGE OF THE
CITY.
>> UM, I'VE BEEN DOING
ENGAGEMENT FOR A DECADE AND
I'VE I HAVE NOT SEEN BETTER
NUMBERS THAN THAT IS VERY
DIFFICULT TO GET PEOPLE TO
SPEND THEIR EVENING TALKING
ABOUT.
TWENTY FIFTY RIGHT.
>> PEOPLE ARE WORRIED ABOUT
NEXT WEEK SO I WHAT I'M SAYING
IS WE CAN CONTINUE TO ASK MORE
QUESTIONS THEY WON'T SCIENTIFIC
THINGS WILL CONTINUE TO SHIFT
BASED ON WHO IS THERE AND WHO
ISN'T THERE AND THAT AND SO I
GUESS I WANT TO KNOW WHAT LEVEL
OF DETAIL YOU ALL WANT TO SEE
IN A SECTION AND IF YOU'RE OK
WITH WHAT HAS BEEN DONE SO FAR.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I THINK THE LEVEL OF DETAIL AS
GOOD PARTICULARLY IF WE HAVE AN
APPENDIX IN A WAY TO ACCESS THE
SURVEY DATA AND OTHER THINGS
LIKE THAT DOESN'T NEED TO BE IN
THE PLAN.
AND MY MY SENSE OF THE MAP IS
THAT THIS IS THIS IS THIS IS
THE MAP.
YOU CAN READ IT HOW YOU WANT
YOU CAN INTERPRET HOW YOU WANT
LIKE INTERPRETATIONS OF THE MAP
RIGHT HERE.
IT'S JUST THE MAP.
>> THE ONE THING I MEANT I
SUPPOSE IS THAT ON PAGE THIRTY
BUT SAYS SEVENTY THREE PERCENT
OF PARTICIPANTS GENTLE DENSITY
UP TO FOUR UNITS.
RIGHT SO THAT THEY CAN SAY
THAT'S KIND OF LIKE EVERYTHING.
YEAH EVERY BIT BECAUSE THAT WAS
IN THE ENGAGEMENT MATERIALS BUT
THEN FEELS LIKE THIS IS THEN MY
OTHER COMMENTS ACTUALLY I WANT
TO GO BACK TO PAGE TWENTY NINE
IN AFFORDABLE EQUITABLE
SUSTAINABLE THERE ARE TWO TWO
AND THE AFFORDABLE YOU KNOW
LIKE THERE YOU NEED TO BE
WORDSMITH TO REMOVE THE TAX
BURDEN AND LIMIT REGULATION.
THOSE ARE INCLUDED.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS.
I THINK THESE CAME FROM THE
PUBLIC PURSE BUT THEY BUT WE
NEED TO BE TO BE ABLE TO
CONTINUE TO BE CLEAR BETTER
DON'T LIKE EVERY SINGLE ONE
NARCOSYNTHESIS.
RIGHT.
SO JUST LIKE CLARIFYING THE TAX
BURDEN THAT PEOPLE CAN'T YOU
SEE THEMES THAT EMERGED AS
BELOW AND A AFFORDABLE IS TAX
BURDEN AND LIMITED REGULATION.
>> I DON'T TOTALLY I MEAN I
THINK THEY'RE SAYING THAT THEIR
TAXES ARE SO HIGH BUT I WOULD
JUST I WOULD SEPARATE THOSE TWO
THINGS OUT AND SAY PRIVATE
PROPERTY TAXES AND THEN
REGULATION.
THEY'RE NOT REGULATED ENOUGH.
THEY HAVE STRICT REGULATION.
I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU GET MY
POINT THOUGH.
RIGHT?
JUST THAT AND I I IS DISTRUST
OF DEVELOPERS AND CITY
GOVERNMENT CHOICES.
YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
RELATIONSHIP IS BETWEEN THAT
AND AFFORDABLE AS A VALUE SO
AND THEN I DON'T KNOW IF A
SUSTAINABLE COLUMN AT THE
BOTTOM IS CONCERNED ABOUT
IMPACT AFFORDABILITY.
I THINK WE GOT TO JUST BE MORE
CLEAR AND SAY YOU KNOW
SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE WORRY
THOSE TWO THINGS ARE
INCOMPATIBLE AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY THAT WE CAN'T
HAVE BOTH OR SOMETHING YOU'RE
LOOKING CONFUSED IS THE POINT
IS I MEAN WAS EDITING THESE
BECAUSE I'M PRETTY SURE THESE
WERE ALL WRITTEN THEN THEY
PRETTY IN QUOTATIONS THEY LOOK
UP ABOVE IT AS A SUMMARY OF KEY
THEMES THAT EMERGED AS NOT LIKE
SAMPLING.
YEAH.
SO YEAH I WAS GOING TO USE
QUOTES IF YOU WANT TO EDIT
BECAUSE THEN THAT SOLVES THAT.
I DON'T HAVE A LOT FOR THE
QUOTES.
I FEEL LIKE THAT WOULD BE THESE
THREE QUOTES FEEL LIKE THEY ARE
ACTUALLY IN THE SERVICE OF ONE
IDEA AND THIS WOULD BE A PLACE
TO COMMISSIONER NORTONS POINT
WHERE IF THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO
SHARED VISIONS FOR THE FUTURE
THAT SAID I WANT IT TO BE
EXACTLY WHAT IT IS NOW YOU
COULD INCLUDE IT HERE TO
DIVERSIFY THE VIEW.
>> YES, I THINK THAT'S A GOOD
POINT AND I DO WANT TO LET YOU
KNOW THAT STUFF FEELS PRETTY
STRONGLY BE ONE RECOMMENDATION.
WE'RE GOING TO GIVE IT TO THEM
AND WE CAN ASK WAS TO REMOVE
ALL OF THE QUOTES FROM THIS
DOCUMENT BECAUSE FOR THAT VERY
REASON WE'RE I THINK THEY FEEL
GERIA OR SELF SERVING AND THAT
I DO THINK THIS DOCUMENT DOES A
GOOD JOB IN THE NARRATIVE
OF SHOWING A BALANCED VIEW BUT
I DON'T THINK THE QUOTES DO SO
THAT WOULD BE IN LINE WITH
SOMETHING THAT WE WERE
MENTIONING LIKE WE COULD AND
MAYBE WE WANT TO TAKE A VOTE ON
THIS REMOVE THESE EXAMPLES HERE
ON PAGE TWENTY.
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE REFERRING
TO, RIGHT?
THE MAD LIB DEM EXAMPLES
OF PRIORITIES THAT I THINK MY
ONLY QUESTION ABOUT THAT IS I
REMEMBER EARLY ON THE
ENGAGEMENT THAT THE CONSULTANTS
WERE USING NORTHSTAR AS THE
COUNCIL RESOLUTION WHICH HAD A
NEGATIVE.
I FELT LIKE WE'RE NOW CHANGING
THE NARRATIVE.
I FEEL LIKE WE ARE NOW CHANGING
THE DIRECTION OF THE COUNCIL
RESOLUTION BECAUSE WE'RE YEAH,
I'LL JUST STOP THERE THAT THAT
THAT WAS THE THING THAT JUST
TRIGGERED AND SO I JUST I WAS
LISTENING TO THESE THESE QUOTES
SO IF THAT WAS HAPPENING I JUST
WANT TO PUT A PLACEHOLDER TO
COME BACK TO THAT AND A LITTLE
CONVERSATION MAYBE BEFORE WE
SUBMIT EVERYTHING TO THE
CONSULTANTS FOR OUR DRAFT
REVISION.
>> SO YOU'RE YOU'RE ASKING NOT
TO REMOVE THE QUOTES FOR NO.
I THINK I THINK WHAT I'M ASKING
WHAT I'M HIGHLIGHTING IS THE
CRITIQUE IS THAT THE QUOTES ARE
IN A DIRECTION AND I THINK THAT
IS ON PURPOSE.
YES, I THINK IT'S ON PURPOSE
BECAUSE IT WAS FOLLOWING THE
NORTH STAR OF THE COUNCIL
RESOLUTION AND NOW WE ARE GOING
TO CHANGE THAT WHICH IS OUR
RIGHT TO DO IF WE CHOOSE TO.
>> BUT I JUST WANT TO PUT A PEN
THERE TO REVISIT THAT BEFORE
THAT ACTUALLY OCCURS BECAUSE
WHAT I SAID IN EARLIEST,
EARLIEST CONVERSATIONS LIKE
BEFORE WE HAD CONCEPTS OF A
PLAN THAT THAT'S THAT'S A PLAN
THAT'S WHAT WAS IT THAT NOW
BECAUSE THAT'S WHEN WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT ALL OF THIS.
AND SO I JUST I JUST WANT PUT A
PEN THERE THERE'S THERE'S
THERE'S A GATE FOR ME THAT I
STOPPING AT SOMETHING SO I
REMEMBER I HAD I KNOW BUT HE IS
WAITING I WANT TO POINT OUT
DONELLE ULTIMATELY THIS PLAN
WILL BE ADOPTED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL.
SO IT'S THE CITY COUNCIL'S PLAN
.
BUT THE WAY THIS WHOLE THING IS
STRUCTURED IS IT'S THE PLANNING
COMMISSION'S PLAN AND ONE
OF THE CHARGES WE HAVE IS TO
CRAFT A PLAN THAT LISTENS TO
AND RESPECTS THE GUIDANCE WE'VE
GOTTEN FROM THE CITY COUNCIL.
BUT IT ALSO REQUIRES THAT WE
CONSULT WITH THE PUBLIC AND GET
THEIR FEEDBACK AND SO NOW WE'RE
PUT IN THE DIFFICULT POSITION
OF HAVING TO RECONCILE THOSE
THINGS.
SO I IN SO WHEN I READ THIS I
TOOK IT IT THREE WELL HERE'S
WHAT THE CITY COUNCIL TOLD US
OUR GUIDELINES SHOULD BE AND
HERE'S WHAT WE HEARD FROM THE
RESIDENTS.
SO THAT'S ALL KIND OF GETTING
FOLDED IN TO NOW HOW WE'RE
VIEWING CRAFTING THE PLAN AND I
THINK THAT'S OK.
SO BUT I WOULD SAY IF WE'RE
GOING TO DO THAT WE DEFINITELY
NEED TO UPDATE ALL OF THIS
STUFF TO INCORPORATE ALL THE
STUFF WE'RE HEARING NOW WHICH
IS ADDING TO MORE PERSPECTIVES
THAT ARGUABLY WEREN'T
COVERED BROADLY EARLY ON IS
WHAT THEY WERE.
SO THAT WE REALLY ARE GIVING IF
WE'RE GOING TO GIVE A SAMPLING
OF QUOTES FROM THE CITY
RESIDENTS, LET'S MAKE SURE IT'S
REALLY REPRESENTATIVE OF WHAT
WE'RE HEARING.
THAT'S MY FIRST COMMENT.
YEAH, MY SECOND COMMENT IS AND
WE SHOULD UPDATE THE MEMBERS
TOO LIKE BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO
END UP HAVING A LOT MORE
MEETINGS AND HEARING LOTS MORE
COMMENTS AND ALL OF THAT CAN BE
FOLDED IN.
THEY'RE COMING TO US.
I DIDN'T LIKE THE QUOTES
THROUGHOUT THE REST OF THE
DOCUMENT.
I THOUGHT THEY WERE CHERRY
PICKED AND IT WASN'T CLEAR TO
ME WHAT PROCESS THEY WERE USING
TO PULL THEM.
SO I WOULD BE IN FAVOR OF JUST
PULLING THEM OUT.
AND THEN FINALLY ON PAGE THIRTY
THREE WHERE THESE SUMMARIES I
WOULD LIKE TO KNOW A LITTLE BIT
MORE OF HOW THEY GOT TO THESE
WHAT PROCESS DID THEY USE TO
ARTICULATE THE THEMES THAT
THEY'RE PRESENTING HERE.
>> I READ A LOT OF HOW WHAT ON
THAT EXACT SPREAD JUST LIKE HOW
DID THEY GET TO THIS LIKE WHAT
WAS SAID I CAN TELL YOU
SPECIFICALLY AT SOME POINT BUT
LIKE THEN EDUCATION CAME BACK
AND I WANTED TO RESPOND JUST TO
WHAT YOU SAID A LITTLE BIT AND
YOU KIND OF FOLLOWED UP WITH SO
I DON'T I REMEMBER AT THE VERY
BEGINNING OF THIS PROCESS AND
CITY COUNCIL HAD THE RESOLUTION
AND WE HAD THESE VALUES RIGHT.
AFFORDABLE, EQUITABLE,
SUSTAINABLE.
AND I REMEMBER SAYING LIKE IF
IF THINGS COME OUT IN PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION ARE LIKE THERE'S
DIFFERENT VALUES OR PEOPLE
DON'T AGREE WITH THIS LIKE
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE THAT INTO
CONSIDERATION.
>> RIGHT.
AND HE SAID YES, I DON'T KNOW
NOTHING THAT I'VE HEARD HAS
MADE ME THINK THAT THESE ARE
THE WRONG VALUES.
SO I THINK WE'RE WE'RE STILL
GOOD ON THE COUNCIL RESOLUTION
LIKE I MEAN I THINK WE'RE
SCREAMING THAT'S ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
JUST SUCH A HARD THING FOR US
TO TACKLE.
UM, SO I THINK WE'RE ALL KIND
OF SAYING THE SAME THING LIKE
WE CAN KEEP THESE THINGS IN
LIKE I DON'T WANT TO CHANGE ANY
OF THE VALUES BASED ON ANY
PUBLIC COMMENT THAT I'VE HEARD.
BUT I WOULD ALSO AGREE WITH
TAKING QUOTES JUST BECAUSE
OF REASONS THAT WE ALREADY
SAID.
BUT I THINK WE'RE I THINK WE'RE
EVEN WITH ALL OF THE COMMENTS
THAT WE'VE HAD RECENTLY THEY'RE
VERY ANGRY ABOUT VERY SPECIFIC
THINGS.
I THINK THERE'S STILL PARITY
AND AFFORDABILITY.
>> SUSTAINABILITY IS VERY
IMPORTANT TO PEOPLE.
YEAH, I THINK WE'RE I'M SEEING
I AGREE WITH THAT BUT WE'RE I'M
SAYING AND BECAUSE I'M IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS TALKED
ABOUT FAIRLY OFTEN AS BEING A
NEIGHBOR A IT'S A NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT HAS HAD A LOT
OF DEVELOPMENT AND B A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT PEOPLE THINK
SHOULD HAVE MORE DEVELOPMENT IS
I THINK WE'RE WHERE WHERE
PEOPLE ARE ARE SURPRISED IS
THAT IT'S IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND I THINK THAT SOMETHING LIKE
WE HAVE THE ANN ARBOR FOR ALL
WE HAVE LIKE THAT WE HAVE
TALKED ABOUT THIS AS A AS A
CITY AND WHAT DO WE WANT AND WE
HAVE THESE VALUES FOR THE CITY
.
AND I I THINK FOR A LOT
OF PEOPLE THIS HAS BEEN THE
FIRST TIME THAT THEY'VE REALLY
CONNECTED THAT THESE THINGS ARE
GOING TO AFFECT THEM AND AND
FOR SOMEONE LIKE ME LIKE OH
YEAH, OF COURSE YOU KNOW,
THAT'S EASY BECAUSE THAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT IS
HAPPENING AND IT HAS HAPPENED
AND LIKE I'VE GOTTEN USED TO IT
BUT I THINK FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE
AND MAYBE THIS IS SOMETHING IN
OUR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE VERY INTO THAT THEY
THEY ABSOLUTELY FEEL STRONGLY
ABOUT THE VALUES BUT THOSE
VALUES ARE IN IN OTHER
APPROPRIATE PLACES IN THE CITY
AND THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD IS NOT
THE APPROPRIATE PLACE AND HOW
WE MAKE THAT DISTINCTION
OF LIKE A IF SOMEBODY IS GOING
TO PUT A FOURPLEX IN BURNS PART
IT IS NOT GOING TO BE THE SAME
FOURPLEX THAT GOES UP NEXT TO
ME LIKE THAT.
IT'S JUST THAT THAT'S HOW THE
DEVELOPMENT IS.
IT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN THAT
WAY.
BUT BUT WE CAN'T JUST SAY THAT
BECAUSE I MEAN IT COULD YOU YOU
KNOW, LIKE SO I THINK KIND
OF REALLY GETTING TO THE THING
OF IT'S NOT THAT PEOPLE
HONESTLY ARE LIKE NO, I DON'T
WANT THIS NEAR ME.
>> I JUST DON'T THINK PEOPLE
HAVE TO HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT IT
LIKE THAT.
>> IT'S NOT BECAUSE THEY LIVE
IN A SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THEY DON'T LIVE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD OF QUOD COMPLEXES
AND IT'S NOT SOMETHING THEY'VE
THOUGHT ABOUT LIKE.
>> AND SO THIS IS REALLY
JARRING FOR PEOPLE WHO DO HAVE
ALL THE VALUES AND THEY'RE NOT
ACTIVELY THINKING OH I DON'T
WANT THAT.
>> THEY JUST HAVE NEVER
CONSIDERED THAT IT WOULD BE IN
THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> I WANTED TO PROPOSE DOING A
STRAW POLL AND REMOVING THE
QUOTES FROM THE CENTER SLIDE
WHATEVER IT IS PAGE IT'S AT THE
CENTER.
IT'S THE RIGHT HAND SIDE
OF TWENTY EIGHT AND LET ME JUST
OK BUT CAN WE FRAME THE VOTE
THOUGH BECAUSE LIKE I DON'T
LIKE THOSE QUOTES BUT I WOULD
LIKE MORE REPRESENTATIVE SO SO
THAT'S ACTUALLY WHAT I'M
PROPOSING ELIMINATING WHICH IS
THAT ADULTS BUT NOT ALL I'M NOT
SO IT'S I THINK THE CONCERN
THAT I'M HEARING STAFF SAY IS
THAT IT'S THEY'RE NOT
REPRESENTATIVE OF SORT OF MAYBE
IMPACT AND THEY DON'T BUT IT'S
HARD I THINK AND I THINK MESSY
BUT ALSO UNNECESSARY TO DO THAT
WORK BECAUSE THEMATICALLY THE
OTHER SLIDES IN THIS SECTION I
THINK DO THAT JOB OF DISTILLING
AN ENORMOUS VOLUME OF FEEDBACK
INTO JUDGMENT CALLS, WRITE THIS
ISN'T SCIENTIFIC JUDGMENT CALLS
THAT WERE MADE BY STAFF AND THE
CONSULTANTS AROUND WHAT THEY
HEARD AND I'M COMFORTABLE WITH
THOSE STATEMENTS WHEN THEY'VE
DISTILLED DOWN A JUDGMENT HAS
BEEN USED TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
WERE THE MAIN THEMES WE HEARD
AND WHAT BUCKETS DO THEY FALL
AND WHAT WAS THE NUMBER ONE
THEME WE I DON'T THINK WE NEED
TO READ THE EXACT QUOTES OR
ENGAGE THE EFFORT OF PICKING UP
SIX OR EIGHT OR TWELVE OR TEN
OR THIRTY QUOTES THAT ARE
REPRESENTATIVE OF A BROAD
SPECTRUM OF IDEAS.
SO THAT FEELS PROBLEMATIC.
STAFF IS TELLING PROVIDING SOME
FEEDBACK THAT THAT A LITTLE
PROBLEMATIC.
SO LET'S JUST ELIMINATE THE
MESSAGE THAT I FEEL LIKE IT'S I
FEEL LIKE THE REST I DON'T LOSE
ANY BOAT SPEED BY CUTTING IT
THE REST OF THE SLIDES DO THE
WORK.
I JUST THINK IT'S MESSY SO
RIGHT.
LET'S DO ANOTHER STROBL
REVISION.
AMENABAR ON SLIDE TWENTY TWENTY
EIGHT AND TWENTY TO THOSE THREE
QUARTERS IF YOU WANT TO KEEP ON
WE CAN TALK ABOUT MAKING MORE
REPRESENTATIVE BUT I'M
PROPOSING JUST CUTTING THEM
RIGHT ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF CUTTING THEM.
>> YEAH ONE TWO OK WE HAVE A
GREAT ONE RIGHT CUT AWAY AND A
FRIENDLY KIND ONE THAT'S WHEN
WE KNOW ARE THE QUOTES OR THE
THEMES OR WHAT ARE THEY JUST TO
GET CLARIFICATION WHAT EXACTLY
ARE THEY SUPPOSED TO BE.
SO CAN I REALLY WHAT I'VE HEARD
TO SEE IF I GET THIS RIGHT SO
PRETTY CLEARLY REMOVING THE
QUOTES FROM TWENTY EIGHT THAT
WE JUST VOTED ON TWENTY NINE
FIGURING OUT HOW THOSE WERE
SUMMARIZED OR IF THEY'RE DIRECT
QUOTES IF THEY ARE SUMMARIZED
THEN THEY NEED TO BE CLARIFIED
OR SEPARATED BECAUSE YOU COULD
DO TAX BURDEN OK DELAYED OR
SEPARATED UM THERE ARE SOME
THINGS THAT I'M STILL NOT CLEAR
ON SO ON PAGE THIRTY THREE
WOULD WE LIKE MORE NARRATIVE
ABOUT HOW WE GOT TO THESE.
>> YES.
MM HMM.
SURELY THEY HAD SOME KIND
OF PROCESS THEY USE TO DISTILL
THEM DOWN.
>> I WOULD EVEN JUST A COUPLE
OF SENTENCES HOW DID THEY DO
THAT.
OK I THINK WE CAN DO THAT AND
THEN UM SORRY CAN I SUGGEST
LIKE ON THIRTY TWO THEY A
SUMMARY OF THE ITEMS FROM
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT PROCESS AND
PUT A FOOTNOTE THERE AND THEN
THAT'S WHERE YOU CAN DO IT.
>> YOU DESCRIBE THE PROCESS YOU
MEAN I'M SORRY DESCRIBE THE
PROCESS IN A FOOTNOTE TO THE
TINY LITTLE THING THAT'S A
SUMMARY YES THAT'S A SUMMARY.
>> SOMEBODY PROCESSED A WHOLE
BUNCH OF DATA AND I THINK MAYBE
THAT'S TWO FINE PRINT.
I MEAN INSTEAD OF MAJOR THINGS
AND TAKEAWAYS, HOW ABOUT
SUMMARY OF THEMES FROM PUBLIC?
YOU KNOW, IN THE BIG PRINT THAT
THAT MAY BE BETTER THAN THAT
AND THEN TO THAT TOTALLY.
>> YES, I AGREE.
I CONCUR.
IT'S GOING TO APPEND TO SEE TWO
OF THEIR SUPPORTING STUFF TO
SUPPORT SOME OF THESE LIKE VERY
BIG.
THERE ARE ALSO SOME CONCERNS
ABOUT POTENTIAL GENTRIFICATION
,AN EROSION OF QUALITY BUT
THAT'S A HUGE STATEMENT LIKE
SOME CONCERNS LIKE WHAT DOES
THAT WHO WHAT WHO LIKE WHERE'S
THE BACKUP?
I THINK IN SOME OF THESE
INSTANCES WE MAY HAVE NUMBERS
BUT WHEN WE SAY WE DID NOT TAKE
DEMOGRAPHICS, WE DID NOT ASK
FOR PEOPLE THAT EVERYTHING IS
ANONYMOUS UM JUST TO MAKE THAT
CLEAR.
BUT UM OK, SO I HAVE THE NOTE
HOW DID WE GET TO THESE CHANGE
IT TO SUMMARY OF MAJOR
TAKEAWAYS AT THE TOP OF WHAT
DOES THAT THIRTY TWO AND THEN
WE CAN TALK ABOUT A STEP HOW TO
PUT IN AN APPENDIX MORE
DETAILED INFORMATION FROM
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT DOES THAT
SEEM TO COVER .
>> YEAH I MEAN YOU BETTER PART
OF THAT RIGHT IN THE WE OF WE
JUST DON'T HAVE IT LIKE YEAH
YEAH.
>> READY TO GO.
YEAH HE'S HOLDING UP A LITTLE A
LOT OR MODERATELY DEFINED
DEFINED ANYWHERE OR NO I DON'T
THINK SO NO JUST MAYBE SAY THAT
IT WASN'T REALLY LIKE PEOPLE
THAT COME UP THERE BECAUSE IT'S
JUST I DON'T KNOW AND I DON'T
KNOW THAT THE ABSENCE OF A ICON
WAS A BLOCK SO THAT'S THE OTHER
THING JUST BECAUSE THERE'S NOT
A LIKE A LITTLE STICKER THERE
DOESN'T MEAN THAT PEOPLE DIDN'T
WANT TO SEE HOUSING THERE.
SO I DON'T THINK A VOTE AGAINST
IT UH, JUST FROM MY EXPERIENCE
OF BEING IN THE ROOM.
>> HMM.
GO CHAPTER THREE, CHAPTER THREE
PRETTY
I JUST GO FAST.
>> I OH YOU'RE ADVANCING THE
SLIDES LIKE I'M ALREADY ON IT
KNOW I'M RIGHT TO REACH
ALREADY.
OH OK.
WELL LET'S GO STRAIGHT TO FOR
AN AUCTION LIKE GOING ON THIRTY
SIX THIRTY ZINGERMAN'S AIMS TO
GO WITHIN ITS CURRENT
BOUNDARIES ARE AMONG THE VERY
FIRST WE HAVE NO CHOICE I MEAN
THIS IS SOMETHING I WAS
THINKING OF AS WELL BECAUSE
IT'S OFTEN FRAMED AS WE CAN
GROW UP, WE CAN GROW OUT WE
CAN'T REALLY GROW.
>> THAT WAS THAT CAME LEADER
TOO.
I WAS LIKE YEAH UM I MEAN I
THINK THEY WANTED ME TO SAY WE
COULD BUT WE HAVE AGAIN WE I
DON'T IT'S NOT REALISTIC I
GUESS.
YEAH YEAH WE I CONCURS IT HAS
TO GROW ON TREES.
YEAH WE IS VERY RESPONSIBLE
GROWING WE SUSTAINABLY GROWING
WANT TO I LIKE IT I DON'T KNOW
IF I WANT TO START AGAIN I JUST
WANT TO LIKE SHRINKING IS JUST
TRYING TO PUT A STATEMENT THAT
WE WANT TO GROW WE WANT TO GROW
WITHIN OUR BOUNDARIES SO OK
YEAH BUT IF WE'RE NOT STANDING
WE SAY WANTS TO INSTEAD OF AIMS
I DON'T I DON'T I DON'T KNOW I
DON'T WHAT ABOUT THAT WAS
BOTHERING I WE CAN PUT A PIN IN
THAT.
YEAH.
UM AND THEN THIS WILL BRING
MORE PEOPLE CLOSER TO JOBS AND
AMENITIES PROVIDE MORE
TRANSPORTATION CHOICES LIKE HOW
IS GROWING PROVIDEA I MEAN
THAT'S ALSO FEELS LIKE IF WE
GROW BY INCREASING MORE HOUSING
OPTIONS HOW IS THAT GOING TO BE
JUST ASSUMING THAT
TRANSPORTATION WILL FOLLOW WHAT
WE USE EIGHTY THOUSAND
COMMUTERS EVERY DAY AND IF THEY
LIVE IN THE CITY THEY HAVE MORE
TRANSPORTATION CHOICES THEN IF
THEY DON'T LIVE IN THE CITY
SOMEBODY HOUSING WE ARE DENSITY
TRANSPORTATION CHOICES.
>> IS THIS OUR VISION STATEMENT
OR LIKE THIS OR IS THIS JUST
SORT OF A DESCRIPTION?
>> THE REALLY IS THE VISION
STATEMENT WHICH IS WHY I WAS
GETTING LIKE REALLY IN THE
WEEDS THE YEAH I THINK IS OK
MOST WORKSHOP SEE WHAT THE
PEOPLE THINK.
>> UH IT MIGHT BE GOOD TO
EXPLAIN WHY WE AIM TO GROW
WITHIN OUR CURRENT BOUNDARIES.
>> IT'S ALMOST MORE LIKE NEED
TO GROW TO LAST NIGHT JENNIFER
HALSE FOR ONE THING AND
MICHIGAN IS UH IS A HOME RURAL
STATE AND SO UH YOU IN IN IN
TEXAS APPARENTLY ACCORDING TO
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE
FROM THIS WEEKEND WHICH WAS
DISTRESSING YOU CAN JUST SPRAWL
AND YOU HAVE A LOT OF SUCCESS
WITH CREATING MORE HOUSING
BECAUSE YOU CAN JUST GO IN AND
WE CAN'T DO THAT HERE.
AND ALSO WE HAVE THE GREENBELT
LEGISLATION AND I DO THINK
PEOPLE NEED TO BE REMINDED
OF THAT BECAUSE THE GREENBELT
DOES CONSTRAIN OUR GROWTH.
SO IT'S IT'S NOT JUST A CHOICE
AND WE HAVE TOWNSHIPS AND A LOT
OF PLACES DON'T HAVE TOWNSHIP.
>> EXACTLY.
AND I MEAN I LOVE THIS
STATEMENT ACTUALLY I HAVEN'T
HIGHLIGHTED IS SOMETHING THAT I
REALLY LIKE ANN ARBOR EAMS
WHATEVER MAYBE WE TWEAK THE
VERB BUT GROW WITHIN ITS
CURRENT BOUNDARIES.
>> I THINK THAT THAT IS A HUGE
STATEMENT.
WHAT IS MORE IMPORTANT.
YEAH YEP.
YEAH JUST THERE ARE EMPIRICAL
REASONS WHY THAT'S TRUE LIKE WE
MADE A VALUE JUDGMENT WE
ADOPTED A GREENBELT AND WE LIVE
IN A WORLD WHERE WE CAN'T JUST
ANNEX STUFF.
JENNIFER THEN WENT ON A LIKE A
LAUNCHING OF ALL THE THINGS SHE
WANTED TO ANNEX BUT SHE DIDN'T
AGREE AND I SUGGESTED GREENLAND
AND LIKE THAT AND SOME OF THAT
TO BE TACKLED ON THE NEXT
SLIDE.
RIGHT.
WHICH PROVIDES SOME OF THE
BACKING FOR THE WITHOUT THE
VARIOUS FRAMEWORK.
>> THERE'S AN EXPLANATION IN
THERE.
SO MAYBE THIS WOULD BE
EXPANDING RAPIDLY EXPANDING OUR
PLANET WELL BUT YES, THAT COULD
COME IN THAT WAY.
>> AND WHY THE IS A SENTENCE
MAYBE RIGHT AFTER THAT, RIGHT?
YEAH.
SO LEGALLY AND I CANNOT SHUT
ITS DOORS AND SAY WE'RE NOT
GOING TO TAKE IN MORE PEOPLE.
PEOPLE WANT TO BE HERE.
IT'S REALLY HARD IN MICHIGAN TO
ANNEX NEIGHBORING
JURISDICTIONS, ESPECIALLY WHEN
THE NEIGHBORING TOWNSHIPS
BECOME CHARTER TOWNSHIPS.
>> THEY DO THAT THEY CAN
PREVENT FROM BEING ANNEXED.
SO REALLY IT'S MORE IN NUMBER
IS GROWING AND WE NEED TO GROW
WITH IN OUR CURRENT BOUNDARIES.
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY YEAH,
EXACTLY.
KNOW EXACTLY AND HOW THEY GROW.
SO THE QUESTION ISN'T DO WE
GROW OR NOT?
IT'S HOW WE GROW AND HOW DO WE
GROW IN A WAY THAT SERVES
EVERYBODY.
>> YEAH.
AND HOW DO WE GROW WITHIN OUR
BOUNDARIES?
I MEAN THAT'S SO GOOD BECAUSE
THERE'S ANOTHER STATEMENT A
RELATED STATEMENT HERE I THINK
IT COMES LATER THAT I JUST KEEP
HARPING ON IT.
PEOPLE KEEP TALKING ABOUT IT
NEVER IS FULLY BUILT OUT.
IT'S NOT AND THE IMPLICATION
YEAH.
SO WE'RE GOING TO STOP GROWING.
NO, THAT'S AN INCORRECT
STATEMENT LIKE EXERCISE THAT
EVERY TIME THAT COMES UP WE'VE
GROWN HORIZONTALLY AS MUCH AS
WE CAN BUT WE HAVE TO KEEP
GROWING AND WE NEED TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN.
YEAH AND DON'T EVER LET ANYBODY
SAY THAT WE'RE FULLY BUILT OUT
THAT IS STRONGLY ABOUT WHAT MR.
NORTON HAS SAID ABOUT WE DON'T
HAVE A CHOICE NOT TO GROW THAT
IS THAT IN THERE DOES THAT
SOUNDS GREAT?
>> WELL, NOT IN SO MANY WORDS.
NO AIMS TO GROW WITHIN ITS
BOUNDARIES IS A VERY POSITIVE
STATEMENT WE HAVE.
BUT WE ALSO DON'T EVER SAY LIKE
WE DON'T HAVE THE OTHER CHOICE
WE GROW OR WE SHRINK STAY IN
THE SAME JUST THROWING IT OUT
THERE.
>> WELL THEN WE CAN'T I MEAN
SOME OF THE COMMENTERS WHERE
THE PROBLEM IS THAT IT'S THE
UNIVERSITY IS GROWING AND THE
PROBLEM IS THAT THERE IS A
VICTIM OF ITS OWN SUCCESS.
>> YES.
AND THE IMPLICATION WAS
THEREFORE WE SHOULD STOP
ANYBODY ELSE FROM MOVING THE
SCENE.
>> WE CAN'T DO THAT RIGHT.
NO ONE GOES DOWNTOWN.
WE CAN'T DO SO WHATEVER THE
SOURCE IS, THE REASON THAT
PEOPLE WANT TO LIVE HERE, WE
HAVE TO ACCOMMODATE THAT AND IF
WE'RE GONNA HAVE TO ACCOMMODATE
IT, LET'S DO IT IN A WAY ABOUT
THAT REALLY SERVES BOTH CURRENT
AND FUTURE RESIDENTS.
I THINK THAT'S THE MESSAGE WE
NEED TO SOMEHOW CONVEY.
SEE THAT GHETTO IS NOT AN
EDUCATIONAL PIECE TO BE AN
EDUCATIONAL PIECE TO THIS AND I
LIKE THAT STYLE HARD ASPECT
OF IT HAS TO BE THAT RUNS
AGAINST THE EARLY SET
OF COMMENTS THAT WE HAD WHICH
IS IT WAS FROM MY LISTENING
OF THE ADDRESSES IT WAS TWO OR
THREE SPECIFIC NEIGHBORHOODS
COMING AND SAYING NO CHANGE OUR
TWO OR THREE SPECIFIC
NEIGHBORHOODS WE DID NOT HEAR
FROM 90 PERCENT OF THE THIRTY
SIX PERCENT THAT'S ZONED R ONE
OR TWO WE HEARD FROM TWO OR
THREE NEIGHBORHOODS AND FOR ME
AS SOMEONE WHO STARTED IN THE
CITY AS TO TRY TO RUN A HOUSE
ON PREST WAS DENIED MOVED OUT
OF THE CITY FOR A MINUTE AND
THEN CAME BACK IN.
IT'S BEEN INTERESTING TO THINK
ABOUT HOW WE THINK ABOUT
HOUSING IN THE CITY AND
ESPECIALLY
THE PARKING
CONVERSATIONS THAT WE'VE BEEN
HAVING LIKE I LIVE NEAR THE
STADIUM BUT I DIDN'T KNOW I
LIVE NEAR THE STADIUM BECAUSE
WE BOUGHT OUR HOUSE IN THE
SPRING AND IT WAS OUR FIRST
FOOTBALL AND I WAS LIKE WE'RE
WHAT IS GOING ON?
>> WHY ARE PEOPLE WE'RE LIKE A
MILE AWAY AND YOU 16 YEARS
LATER I'VE COME TO LOVE OUR
PARK SO IT'S LIKE HOW DO WE
EDUCATE PEOPLE ABOUT HOW THE
CITY WORKS?
I SEE THIS WITH THE TEXAS WE
DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW THE TAXES
WORK.
I SEE THE INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE DON'T UNDERSTAND THAT
SOMETIMES MORE DENSITY MAKES
THE INFRASTRUCTURE EASIER TO DO
SO WE'RE DOES THAT FIT OR
RATHER DOES IT FIT IN THIS
DOCUMENT BECAUSE I THINK IT
CAPTURES WHAT WE'VE BEEN
HEARING AT THE TABLE BUT IT
ALSO INSTEAD OF US BEING IN AN
ADVERSARIAL ROLE WITH THOSE
COMMENTERS, WE SAY THIS IS THE
CHALLENGE THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT
WHICH IS A VIBRANT, DESIRABLE
GROWING CITY.
>> HOW DO WE TAKE THE NEXT STEP
TOGETHER AND THE RULES ONE
HEARD WHAT YOU JUST SAID.
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE
WATCHING SO SO JUST KIND
OF GETTING TO KNOW IT IS AND
WE'RE GOING TO GIVE IT A LOT
OF TIME.
I WOULD JUST SAY HOPEFULLY I
HEARD THIS COMMENT I MEAN LIKE
DON'T NEED TO WORK OUT THAT IN
THIS ANN ARBOR TODAY SECTION
THAT WE LABORED OVER
EXTENSIVELY WE COULD ADD
ESPECIALLY IF WE GET SOME
OF THE COMICS THERE BE SPACE
SOME OF THIS INFORMATION I FEEL
LIKE THAT'S A VERY APPROPRIATE
PLACE TO ADDRESS THE
SPECIFICITY OF OUR GEOGRAPHIC
BOUNDARY WHICH FEELS LIKE IT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT HERE AND ALSO
THAT COMES RIGHT AFTER THE
TIMELINE AREAS WHICH WOULD ALSO
TALK ABOUT I MEAN IT
SPECIFICALLY TALK ABOUT IT BUT
THAT'S WHEN HIGHWAYS GET RIGHT
.
>> I MEAN THAT'S WHAT DEFINES
US.
I'M FOURTEEN NINETY FOUR AND
TWENTY THREE AND THE GREENBELT
KIND OF THING WHICH IS TWO SO
THAT'S ABOUT ONE OF YEAH YEAH
RIGHT YEAH.
>> I'M JUST A COMMENT THAT I
MADE MORE ATTRACTIVE
COMMISSIONER EARLIER WE DID
THIS WITH AND IF JUST IF WE TRY
TO FULLY EDUCATE GREENBELT NO
TAX JUST LIKE A LITTLE JUST ONE
PARAGRAPH I KNOW I GET IT FROM
TAXES YOU ARE OFTEN ADDING
EDUCATIONAL AND DATABASES AND
WHEN WE I JUST I JUST WANT TO
BE REALISTIC WHEN WE EVEN IF WE
HAVE THEM BRIEFLY AND EVEN IF
WE HAD FOOTNOTES AND EVEN IF WE
HAD APPENDICES AT SOME POINT
THIS DOCUMENT WILL NOT BE ABLE
TO EDUCATE EVERYBODY ON EVERY
FACET OF CITY THINKING AND SO
SO I WOULD JUST ASK WHEN YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT THESE THINGS,
MAKE SURE THAT THERE ARE THINGS
THAT YOU THINK ARE REALLY
CRITICAL TO COMMUNICATE IN THE
NEXT CHAPTERS THE GOALS, THE
VISIONS, THE THINGS YOU'RE
GOING TO BE WORKING ON IN THE
COMING YEARS AND THEY'RE WE'RE
GOING THROUGH THESE THINGS AND
I JUST WANT TO BE HONEST
THERE'S A MYRIAD OF THINGS THAT
YOU'RE NOT RAISING THAT ARE
PROBABLY JUST AS FORMATIVE TO
SOME OF THE SOME OF THESE
ASPECTS.
>> SO WE'RE TAKING NOTES.
BUT OK, AND UNDERSTAND THAT
BETTER.
BUT I ALSO THINK THAT PART
OF MY AUDIENCE IS THE COUNCIL
AND ARMING THEM WITH SECTIONS
OF THE PLAN THAT THEY EMPLOYING
PEOPLE TO WHEN THEY'RE IN THE
PROCESS OF THE DISTRIBUTION AND
THE PUBLIC COMMENT THAT HAPPENS
LATER.
I DEFINITELY DON'T WANT TO TURN
THIS INTO A BRIEF BUT I ALSO
THINK LIKE IN TERMS OF THE
ISSUES THAT WE THINK ARE THE
MOST SALIENT, THERE'S SOME
FACTS THAT I THINK NEED TO GO
IN RIGHT PAGE FOR POINT ONE
COMMISSIONER N I I JUST HAD A
QUESTION ON PAGE THIRTY NINE
ABOUT WHETHER WE'VE GOT
QUESTIONS DIRECT QUOTES HERE
AND I'M SORRY IT IS PAST MY
TIME IF WE THE VOTE BEFORE WAS
THAT WE ALSO EXERCISE THESE
DIRECT QUOTES I PREFER TO
EXCISE THEM FROM PAGE DO YOU
WANT THEM GONE FOR THE ENTIRETY
OF THE DOCUMENT.
>> I DON'T I DIDN'T ACTUALLY
HAVE A FEELING COMING INTO THIS
BUT I'M ACTUALLY CURIOUS WHAT
STAFF'S COMMENTS WERE BECAUSE
THERE'S OTHERS ARE THROUGHOUT
HERE.
>> WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT THEM IF
THAT'S WHAT YOU SAID.
YEAH YEAH I THINK I DON'T THINK
YOUR POSITION YEAH.
I PERSONALLY LIKE I KIND
OF LIKE SORT OF THAT IT BRINGS
A VOICE AND IT BRINGS A
PERSONALITY THAT I THINK
HAPPENS SOMEWHAT LIKE THE
CARTOONS BUT IT BRINGS KIND
OF A FOLKSINESS AND THIS IS NOT
JUST THE CONSULTANTS THIS IS
PEOPLE HERE BUT I THINK IT'S
JUST SO HARD TO PICK AND I
DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S IT'S
HELPFUL TO PICK BECAUSE THIS IS
A DOCUMENT THAT'S GOING TO LIVE
FOR A LONG TIME AND THESE
QUOTES MAY OR MAY NOT HELP IN
THE FUTURE.
>> CAN I ASK BEFORE WE GET TO
THE LAST WHAT IS THE FEEDBACK
FOR THESE VALUES?
I'M NOT I JUST HAVE WE WANT TO
CHANGE.
WE NEED TO OR WANT TO GROW IN
THE VISION STATEMENT AND THAT
WE WANT TO REMIND PEOPLE OF THE
GREENBELT ARE YOU ALL OK?
IT DOES THAT MEAN YOU'RE ALL OK
WITH WHAT IS WRITTEN ON THIS
PAPER THAT SAYS VALUES
FRAMEWORK?
>> BUT YES BUT I NEED SOME
CITATIONS ESPECIALLY LIKE
BUILDING MORE HOUSING SUPPORTS
AFFORDABILITY BY EASING
PRESSURE SUPPLY.
WE KEEP HEARING A LOT OF THINGS
FOR PEOPLE THAT ARE LIKE THAT
IS NOT TRUE.
I MEAN I DON'T KNOW.
SO I JUST I NEED MORE
CITATIONS.
I THINK YOU'RE OUT HERE FOR
SOME OF THESE BOLD CLAIMS TO
WANT CITATIONS THAT SUPPORTED
AND CITATIONS THAT OPPOSE IT.
>> WELL, IF MR. LEONARD WELL
FOR BOTH NO, I THINK THAT'S A
PROBLEM THEN RIGHT.
BECAUSE LIKE NO IT'S NOT IT'S
NOT A THE CHALLENGE THEN RIGHT
.
USE THE UTILITY SUBAGENCY TO
PICK A POLICY HERE AND WELL
THERE IS CONFLICTING RESEARCH
THEN I MEAN THE BULK OF THE
RESEARCH SUPPORTS ADDING
HOUSING HELPS WITH
AFFORDABILITY.
BUT I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
SOMEBODY IS GOING TO SEND YOU
THE SAME THE POLICIES THAT THE
MAJORITY OF RESEARCH SUPPORT
THERE'S WAYS TO I WOULD ALSO
ADD THE WORDS IN THE LONG RUN
YEAH.
>> OK, TOMORROW.
>> YEAH.
NO I MEAN BUT REALLY THAT IS
THAT IS WHAT THE RESEARCH IS
SHOWING.
YEAH YEAH.
I GUESS I DON'T SUPPORT ADDING
FOOTNOTES THROUGHOUT BUT I
EARLIER I MADE THE COMMENT THE
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT
WAS A COUPLE OF PARAGRAPHS IN
THERE IT COULD BE DROPPED DOWN
AND THAT'S COUNCIL APPROVED
LANGUAGE.
IT'S IT'S JUDGMENTS THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN MADE THAT I DON'T
THINK WE NEED TO RELITIGATE SO
YEAH, I AGREE WITH THAT ONE.
>> I'M GLAD THAT COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT FLAGGED THIS
SENTENCE THOUGH BECAUSE THIS
WAS ONE OF THE ONES THAT I
REALLY GOT STUCK BECAUSE I
REALLY DID WANT EASING PRESSURE
ON SUPPLY IN THE LONG RUN.
BUT THEN JUST SORT
OF GRAMMATICALLY SOMETHING
HAPPENS IN THIS SENTENCE
PROVIDING A RANGE OF HOME SIZES
TYPES AND PRICES CONTRIBUTING
TO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
AND REDUCING TRANSPORTATION
COSTS.
YES, BUT BUILDING MORE HOUSING
DOESN'T NECESSARILY PROVIDE A
RANGE OF HOME SIZES, TYPES AND
PRICES.
IT DEPENDS IF WE BUILD DIVERSE
TYPES OF MORE HOUSING.
>> YES, AND SO THEN IF WE
SPECIFY A LITTLE BIT MORE THEN
IT DOES SUPPORT WHY WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A HOLISTIC
APPROACH WHERE WE ARE TRYING TO
BUILD A SYSTEM AND PARTS OF THE
CITY HAVE A DIFFERENT ROLE TO
PLAY DIFFERENT DIFFERENT
GEOGRAPHIC PARTS OF THE CITY
HAVE A DIFFERENT ROLE TO PLAY
IN THIS AND YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
WANT ROWHOUSES.
THEY WANT COTTAGE HOUSES.
YOU SEE WHERE I'M GOING?
SO IT'S JUST A LITTLE BIT TOO
GENERAL.
OK, I'M GOING TO EARLIER I MADE
A STATEMENT ABOUT TRYING THE
OTHER PERSPECTIVE IN GOT PUSHED
BACK.
OH, THESE ARE JUST FACTS
STATEMENTS.
THEY'RE NOT VALUE STATEMENTS.
>> THE THINGS ON THE LEFT
AREN'T VALUE STATEMENTS.
THEY'RE FACTS, DEMONS.
>> RIGHT.
BOULDIN MORE BUILDING MORE
HOUSING PRICE SUPPORTS
AFFORDABILITY.
THE THINGS ON THE RIGHT WE
BELIEVE IN AFFORDABILITY AND
ACCOUNTABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY.
THOSE ARE THE VALUE STATEMENTS
FROM ANOTHER COMMISSIONER.
I'M SORRY.
WELL MY EARLIER COMMENTS I MEAN
I WASN'T TRYING TO BE SNARKY.
>> I WAS A NO NO.
I JUST I WANT TO KNOW WHETHER
BECAUSE I WAS PUSHING BACK
EARLIER ON THE VOICES OF SINGLE
FAMILY HOMEOWNERS BEING
REFLECTED IN A SLIDE IT WAS
ABOUT MAKING A VALUE LIKE A
MIXTURE LIKE FACT AND THEY WERE
MORE LIKE SEGMENTS WHICH WAS
WHICH IS WHY SHAKHTAR GOT SO
BECAUSE I GOT THE GUARANTEE
THAT YOU WERE MAKING YEAH.
I'M TRYING TO MAKE HERE IS
THESE ARE YOUR STATEMENTS
THEY'RE THEY'RE FACTUAL
ASSERTIONS THAT THEN WE'RE
USING TO INFORM THESE VALUES
STATEMENTS SO THEY PROBABLY
JUST SEE WHAT I'M GETTING AT.
MICHELLE, I DON'T KNOW.
>> THE FIRST PARAGRAPH IS A
VALUE STATEMENT THAT'S FOR
SURE.
I THINK YOU'RE ON THE RIGHT
SIDE NOT THE LEFT RIGHT.
>> YEAH, THAT COULD HELP.
OH YEAH.
YEAH.
THIS BUILDING MORE SUPPORT
HOUSING SUPPORTS AFFORDABILITY
BY EASING PRESSURE ON SUPPLY
PROVIDING A RANGE OF VALUE
STATEMENTS THOSE ARE FACTUAL.
>> SO YEAH I AGREE.
I'M SAYING THAT THE FIRST
PARAGRAPH ON THE LEFT SIDE IS
THOUGH A VALUE STATEMENT SO IF
I DO AGREE IS YEAH WE SHIFTED
OVER TO THE RIGHT YEAH.
I AGREE WITH YOUR POINT THAT WE
SHOULD SORT OUT THE FACTS FROM
THE VALUES.
>> I MEAN ARE YOU NOT
CONTESTING THAT?
I'M SAYING THEY'RE BEING
PRESENTED IN A CONFUSING WAY
AND I MEAN THE OTHER POINT I
WOULD LIKE US TO CONSIDER AT
SOME POINT IS AS I'VE HEARD
FEEDBACK FROM THE TABLE, A LOT
OF CRITICISM AROUND THAT CITY
IS NOT GOING TO LEAD TO
AFFORDABILITY.
THEREFORE NOTHING SHOULD HAPPEN
.
I THINK THAT IS THE PROBLEMATIC
PART FOR ME, WHICH IS NO ONE
REGULATOR WHO IS OBJECTING IS
COUNTING THE COST OF WHAT
HAPPENS IF WE DO NOTHING AND
WE'VE TAKEN
A FORWARD MOVING
POSTURE TO DO SOMETHING AND WE
RECOGNIZE THAT THE THINGS THAT
YOU PLAN TO DO WILL NOT ACHIEVE
EVERYTHING THAT WE WANT BUT
THEY WILL MOVE US IN THAT
DIRECTION.
>> OK, SO HOW DO THAT FORWARD?
THERE'S ALSO EMPIRICAL RESEARCH
THAT SAYS THAT IF YOU DO
NOTHING IT WILL GET MORE
EXPENSIVE.
SO THE FACT THAT IT MAY BE A
IT'S HARD TO ESTABLISH
CAUSALITY SO WE WANT TO BE
CAREFUL ABOUT THE KIND
OF LANGUAGE BUT BUT IT IS
STABILIZING RENT INCREASES IS
AFFORDABILITY.
>> SO THERE'S PEOPLE WHO ARE
MAKING THOSE STATEMENTS ARE
JUST TAKING OUT OF CONTEXT.
SO I'M PART OF MY REASON FOR
SUGGESTING THAT THE THINGS ON
THE LEFT BE IDENTIFIED AS
FACTUAL STATEMENTS THAT LENDS
ITSELF TO THEN CITATIONS TO THE
LITERATURE THAT CAN SUPPORT
THEM RIGHT.
AND I THINK THE CONSENSUS
OF THE ACADEMIC LITERATURE IS
BE THERE IS A SUPPLY AND DEMAND
THING GOING ON HERE.
BULLIMORE HOUSING IF IT DOESN'T
MAKE HOUSING AFFORDABILITY GO
DOWN AT LEAST TEMPERS THE RISE
.
YEAH, RIGHT.
SO I THINK YOU CAN MOVE THESE
KIND OF KEY FACTUAL ASSERTIONS
AND THEN PROVIDE SOME
CITATIONS, OK?
AND WE DON'T NEED TO INCLUDE
THE CORRECT ACADEMIC WORK THAT
DOESN'T ACTUALLY SUPPORT WE CAN
SUPPORT THE CONSENSUS
LITERATURE AND IF YOU DO THAT
NOW BUILDING FROM THOSE FACTS
STATEMENTS HERE ARE THE CORE
VALUES FROM OUR VISION
STATEMENT THAT KIND OF TIE THEM
TOGETHER, MAKE THEM RELEVANT TO
MAKE WHAT I THINK IS A FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT AND YOU CAN TELL ME
IF IT'S SO WHAT I WAS HOPING
WAS THAT EARLIER ON A LITTLE
BIT LIKE A LEGAL BRIEF RIGHT
EARLIER WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
FACT CLAIMS WE'RE GOING THROUGH
IT.
ALL RIGHT.
WHAT WE FOUND IN OUR PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT, WHAT WE THINK WE
NEED TO DO AND THAT WAS THE
REASON I MADE THE SUGGESTION
UPFRONT TO HAVE THE CITATIONS
FROM THE REPORT THE HIGHER THE
DOCUMENT I FEEL LIKE WE'RE
GETTING TO HERE, WE OUGHT TO BE
ABLE TO JUST SAY WHAT WE THINK
RIGHT.
WE OUGHT TO BE ABLE TO JUST SAY
LIKE THIS IS TRUE.
THIS IS TRUE.
THIS IS WHAT WE FEEL WITHOUT
FOOTNOTES EMBEDDED IN IT WHICH
I'M WORRIED WILL JUST LIKE IT'S
GOING TO START LOOKING LIKE AN
ACADEMIC PAPER THAT BE RIGHT.
YEAH.
MAYBE PROVIDE THE FOOTNOTES
SOMEWHERE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THEY NEED TO
GO HERE BUT I THINK THERE IS
ACADEMIC WORK THAT WE CAN CITE
TO I'M JUST SAYING HERE ARE THE
KEY FACTS THAT WE NOW ACCEPT.
WE'RE TAKING THESE AS GOOD
DESCRIPTIONS OF WHAT'S GOING ON
IN THE WORLD AND HERE ARE THE
VALUES THAT WE'RE GOING TO WORK
FROM COMBINING FACTS AND VALUES
TO GET TO THE GOALS WHICH ARE
IN THE NEXT SECTION.
SO SO FRAMING THEM A LITTLE BIT
MORE THAT WAY.
THAT WAS A GENERAL COMMENT I
HEARD THE THE PLAN IS CHOCK
FULL OF HERE'S WHAT WE HEARD
FROM A RESIDENT BUT THERE'S A
LOT OF GOOD ACADEMIC WORK OUT
THERE TOO THAT SUPPORTS WHAT
WE'RE HEARING AND I DIDN'T
REALLY SEE COULD HAVE IT WAS
HIDDEN IF IT'S THERE IT'S NOT
IN THESE SECTIONS IT'S LISTED
AS THE RATIONALE UNDERNEATH THE
POLLS AND WHEN THEY GET TO THE
NEXT SECTIONS AND WE CAN
DISCUSS WHAT NEEDS TO GO THERE.
>> YEAH, WHY NOT MAKE SURE I
MEAN BECAUSE WE'VE HEARD SO
LOUDLY RECENTLY THAT WE'RE NOT
GOING TO BUILD A WAY OUT OF IT
AND SUPPORT THAT THIS IS THE
FIRST PLACE WE SAY SOMETHING
LIKE THAT AND I LIKE THAT
APPROACH IN GENERAL I SAY THE
GOVERNMENT THIS IS THIS IS THIS
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME WE SAY
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> I NEED A CITATION HURT.
OK, LET'S SO THIS IS THE LAST
AND I THINK FOR TONIGHT BUT I
DID JUST WANT TO REITERATE TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION THAT
THOSE VALUES COME BACK OVER AND
OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
>> IT'S KIND OF WHAT INKERS
THIS PLAN.
>> SO THIS WAS ONE OF MY
QUESTIONS.
I THINK IT MIGHT BE TOO LATE TO
GET INTO THIS DISCUSSION.
WE CAN CONTINUE TO HAVE IT AS
WE GO BUT YOU HAVE TO FEEL
REALLY COMFORTABLE WITH HOW
THOSE ARE DESCRIBED UM AND ALSO
WHAT THEY MEAN FOR YOU WHEN IT
COMES TO DECISION MAKING IN THE
FUTURE BECAUSE ONE OF THE
DIRECT DIRECTIVES WAS TO HAVE A
VALUES BASED PLAN.
THESE ARE NOW OUR VALUES AND
THAT YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE VERY
DIFFICULT DECISIONS IN THE
FUTURE WHERE YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO LEAN ON MEANS SO YOU
HAVE TO FEEL VERY COMFORTABLE
WITH HOW THEY ARE FRAMED AND
DESCRIBED THROUGHOUT THIS PLAN
.
YES, A COMMENT I WANT TO MAKE
ABOUT THAT.
OK, I THINK IDEALLY IN A IN A
LOT OF PLACES YOU COULD DO ALL
OF THESE THINGS SIMULTANEOUSLY
BUT IN SOME OF THESE PLACES YOU
CAN'T AND WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO MAKE TRADEOFFS AND CHOICES
AND I THINK WE NEED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AND THEN
FIGURE OUT WHAT'S THE PROCESS
WE'RE GOING TO USE WHEN WE HAVE
TO RECONCILE CONFLICTING HOW
ARE WE GOING TO DO THAT AND I
DON'T KNOW THAT WE CAN DECIDE
THAT TONIGHT BUT THAT NEEDS TO
BE ARTICULATED.
I THINK I THINK IT IS I MEAN WE
CAN MAYBE WE CAN HIGHLIGHT THE
PLACES WHERE IT IS BUT LIKE ON
PAGE THIRTY TWO THERE'S A WHOLE
THING ABOUT A BALANCED APPROACH
AND I CAN'T REMEMBER BUT I KNOW
I SAID EARLIER TO BEFORE THAT
MAYBE EVEN THE WORD TRADE OFF
WAS ACTUALLY A VERY TOP OF THE
VALUES FRAMEWORK BUT I DO WE
AGREE BRETT AND I HAVE TALKED
ABOUT THIS LIKE NOT EVERY
SINGLE DEVELOPMENT IS GOING TO
PERFECTLY FULFILL ALL FOUR
OF THESE EVERY SINGLE TIME.
>> CORRECT.
AND I JUST READ STIMULI LIKE
WE'RE GOING TO DO ALL OF THIS
SIMULTANEOUSLY AND WE CAN DO IT
EVERYWHERE SIMULTANEOUSLY.
>> SO I HAVE A NOTE ABOUT MAYBE
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THESE
BEING TRADE OFFS.
>> YEAH, I MEAN THAT'S THAT'S
ANOTHER REASON WHY THAT
PARAGRAPH SHOULD JUST MOVE.
I AM NOT COMFORTABLE WITH THE
WAY SUSTAINABLE IS.
>> I THINK WE JUST SHOULD TALK
ABOUT IT AND I'M TOO TIRED.
OK OK WE'VE BEEN HERE FOR FIVE
HOURS YOU HAVE THAT BUT THE
REASON WHY IS BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S TOO IDEALISTIC PROMOTING
BALANCE BETWEEN ALL OF OUR
NATURAL AND HUMAN SYSTEMS TO
SUPPORT A HEALTHY AND
BIODIVERSE ECOSYSTEM TODAY AND
INTO THE FUTURE.
>> IT'S I DON'T KNOW MAYBE I'M
WRONG BUT I THINK THEY'RE
TRYING REALLY HARD TO PUT THE
WORD THEY ARE AND EVERY SINGLE
NIGHT THEY HAVE SOME ISSUES
WITH AFFORDABLE AND EQUITABLE
TO WITH NO ISSUES.
>> IT JUST HOW DO WE SUPPORT
LIKE ALL SHOULD HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO CALL ANN ARBOR
HOME AND THRIVE RESIDENTS AND
BUSINESSES ALIKE LIKE WELL LIKE
THINGS ARE STRIB FOR INSTANCE
WE'RE MAKING YES DIVISION
THERE.
YES.
>> SO THIS MIGHT BE A WAY TO
START.
SURE.
IDEAL IT MIGHT BE A GOOD PLACE
TO START NEXT TIME BECAUSE ALL
OF OUR GOALS HAVE THESE FOUR
ICONS WITH THESE FOUR
DESCRIPTIONS TO REMIND EVERYONE
THAT OUR GOALS ARE MEANT TO
ALIGN WITH THIS.
>> OUR STRATEGIES ARE MEANT TO
ALIGN.
SO IF THERE ARE ISSUES HERE
THAT MIGHT BE A GOOD PLACE TO
START NEXT EVEN FOR SUSTAINABLE
IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT I
OBJECT TO BUT IT'S A PERSON IN
A CROSSWALK IN THE STREET.
BUT WHAT IS MENTIONED AS A
REALLY CORE THING IS NATURAL
AND HUMAN SYSTEMS AND OF COURSE
YOU KNOW WE HAVE A WE HAVE TO
BE REALLY THOUGHTFUL LIKE OF A
PERSON BY A RIVER LIKE THAT.
>> YES.
I MEAN BUT WE ALSO HAVE TO BE
REALLY THOUGHTFUL AND REALISTIC
ABOUT WHAT IT MEANS TO DO URBAN
STYLE DEVELOPMENT TO GET
GREATER DENSITY.
IT DOES MEAN SOME LOSSES.
>> YOU GET THE KEY ADDITION TO
SUSTAINABILITY WAS FUTURE
GENERATIONS.
MAYBE THE PICTURES THE PERSON
HOLDING THE CHILD NOW.
>> OK, FORTY POUNDS LAST BUT
FORTY FORTY ONE TIMES I GET
THAT DONE BUT WE WORK WELL WE
NEVER KNOW WE NEVER DID FORTY
FORTY ONE.
YEAH WE WAS PLAYING IT SO WE
WOULD THAT'S A GOOD STARTING
POINT THIS IS YOU BUT WE WANT
TO DO GO AHEAD.
I MEAN YOU DECIDE RIGHT I HAVE
LOST THE CHUCKLEHEAD YOU WANT
ONE READ IN CHAPTER THREE IT'S
LIKE I JUST GOT TO MAKE SPACE
LIKE I DON'T THIS IS IMPORTANT
BUT LIKE THERE'S THERE'S
DEFINITELY A HIERARCHY HERE.
THESE THINGS ARE PRESENTED AS
IF THEY'RE KIND OF EQUALLY
IMPORTANT AND I WAS STRUCK
CIRCULAR ECONOMY REALLY STOOD
OUT TO ME AS BEING IT FELT LIKE
SUDDENLY I HAVEN'T SEEN THAT
MENTIONED ANYWHERE ELSE AND
IT'S UP HERE WITH HOUSING SO
YEAH I COULD SEE STRIKING AT AH
JUST TRYING TO GIVE SOME SOME
CONTEXT AND THEN JUST I HAD THE
SAME TIME ABOUT FLEXIBILITY ON
THE RIGHT WHICH IS THAT
OF THESE THINGS IT'S THE ONE I
HAVE THE LEAST UNDERSTANDING
OF AT THIS POINT ABOUT HOW THIS
PLAN COUNTS FOR FLEXIBILITY AND
DYNAMISM NOT FLEXIBILITY.
>> SO JUST YEAH DIRECTIVES FOR
OUR ZONING SHOULD BE MORE
FLEXIBLE ON LAND USE.
IT SHOULD BE MORE FLEXIBLE SO
THE DENSITY AND ALL THESE
DIFFERENT HOUSING TYPOLOGIES
LARGELY COVERS.
SO MAYBE INSTEAD OF WE DON'T
KNOW EVERYTHING THE FUTURE
HOLDS LET'S BE FLEXIBLE
EXCLAMATION POINT IT COULD JUST
BE MORE CAREFUL.
>> HOW IS THAT RETAINING ARE WE
FLEXIBLE NOW AND NOW BECAUSE NO
I THINK WE SHOULD MOVE THAT TO
THE OTHER SIDE.
THAT'S THE NOTE FLEXIBILITY
SHOULD BE LET'S MAKE SPACE FOR
AND BUILD.
>> YEAH FLEXIBILITY.
I THINK THAT'S IT.
YEAH LIKE SERVICES I DON'T ALSO
AGREE WITH I FEEL LIKE THAT'S A
BUILD LIKE NOT RETAIN SERVICES
THAT'S TRUE BUT MAYBE RETAIN
QUALITY SERVICES FOR ALL THESE
SERVICES WE'LL SAY YEAH THAT'S
TRUE AND ALSO IS THIS MEANT TO
BE A SUMMARY OF PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT OR I MEAN THE TRACKS
THE PLANS HONESTLY TO ME IT
TRACKS THE PLANS.
WOULD YOU ALL FEEL MORE
COMFORTABLE IF THIS WAS REMOVED
?
YEAH, MAYBE IT KIND OF CAME OUT
OF NOWHERE.
I WAS LIKE I THIS WILL SPREAD I
DON'T DISAGREE WITH SOME OF THE
SENTIMENT AND ALSO JUST THE
LANGUAGE STRIKES ME AS I KNOW
THAT THERE'S A CHEERLEADER BUT
I DON'T KNOW DO YOU ALL WANT TO
TAKE A VOTE ON THAT?
>> I THINK THERE'S AGREEMENT.
OK, DO YOU ALL HAVE ADVICE?
WERE YOU THINKING ABOUT THE
SPREAD?
ARE YOU TIME HAPPY TO REMOVE IT
LIKE SOLAR FARMS?
YEAH.
FOR YOU THIS IS A TWO ZERO
PLAN.
IT'S REFLECTING WE DO HAVE THE
RIGHT AND THE OTHER SIDE THAT
NATURAL FEATURES THAT'S ALL
RIGHT.
I WANT TO GIVE ANYONE THE
LAST
OPPORTUNITY TO SHARE.
I'LL START WITH COMMISSIONER
NORTON AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO
SHARE BUT IF YOU HAVE SOMETHING
I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING MORE THAN
WHAT I'VE ALREADY SAID TONIGHT.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS COMMISSIONER
HENRY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
STAFF, FOR ALL OF YOUR SUPER
HARD WORK ON THIS.
DON'T TAKE THIS AS CRITICISM.
WE ARE JUST WITH YOU TO MAKE
THIS COMMISSIONER.
THESE ARE SUMMARY COMMENTS.
YEAH, NO OK.
I JUST WANTED TO UNDERSCORE I
DIDN'T GET A CHANCE TO CLEAR
THAT PUBLIC COMMENT WE RECEIVED
ADDING A WEEKEND SESSION AND I
DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S POSSIBLE
BUT THE FACT THAT THEY'RE ALL
THE SAME TIME ON THE SAME DAY
LIKE IF YOU JUST HAPPEN TO WORK
TUESDAYS YOU COULD NEVER COME.
>> SO SOME VARIETY I THINK
WOULD BE GREAT.
THANKS.
THERE'S ONE OH OK.
>> MULTIMEMBER COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE, I JUST WANTED TO
SAY IF WE DO HAVE THOUGHTS WHAT
SHOULD WE DO?
>> SHOULD WE SAVE IT FOR THE
NEXT SESSION?
SHOULD WE START THESE CHAPTERS
?
>> YES.
ABOUT LIKE WHAT?
LIKE OK I GO HOME TOMORROW.
I'M THINKING ABOUT IT.
I'M LIKE OH WAIT I HAVE IT'S
TOO LATE.
YES.
I WANT TO BRING THEM BACK TO
THE NEXT ONE IN GENERAL IF YOU
HAVE MINOR COMMENTS AND THEY'RE
MORE ADMINISTRATIVE YOU CAN
SEND THEM TO US.
HOWEVER ANY LARGER CHANGES WE
WANT TO MAKE NEED TO BE
DISCUSSED PUBLICLY SO I WOULD
SAY BRING THEM BACK.
BUT WE DO WANT TO KEEP TRYING
TO MOVE FORWARD WITH THE NEXT
CHAPTERS.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
THIS WAS ACTUALLY ENJOYABLE.
WE'RE NOT LEAVING.
YES WAS A GOOD DISCUSSION.
WE DO HAVE TWO MORE AGENDA
ITEMS FOR TONIGHT'S MEETING BUT
I DO WANT TO GET YOUR CONSENT
TO GO PAST ELEVEN TO FINISH THE
AGENDA.
>> YOU ACTUALLY DON'T HAVE TO
BECAUSE WE'RE ABOUT TO TAKE UP
THE LAST ITEM BEFORE ELEVEN.
>> OK, THAT DOESN'T COUNT.
GREAT.
OK, THAT IS GOOD.
SO MOVING ON TO THANK YOU STAFF
FOR FACILITATING AND
PARTICIPATING IN THAT
CONVERSATION.
I ENJOYED IT AND I FELT LIKE I
WAS HURT.
SO THANK YOU FOR WE'RE MOVING
ON TO ITEM NUMBER TEN OTHER
BUSINESS AND WE ARE REVIEWING
THE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION CALENDAR
WITH A STAFF INTRODUCTION BY
MR. LEONARD BECAUSE YOU HAVE SO
MUCH FUN WE WANT TO DO THIS
SEVERAL MORE TIMES SO THIS
CALENDAR WOULD MEMORIALIZE ALL
THAT IT WOULD MAKE WHERE WE
WOULD MAKE SURE EVERYTHING GETS
UPDATED AND NOT JUST OUR
STUDENT CITY HALL IT FORMALLY
SWITCHES THOSE MEETINGS
PREVIOUSLY THAT WEREN'T REGULAR
MEETINGS TO REGULAR MEETINGS
OVER THIS TIME PERIOD ADDS
FIFTH TUESDAY MEETING IN APRIL
AND CONFIRMS THAT THOSE WOULD
BE STARTING AT FIVE THIRTY PM I
WOULD ASK YOUR ADOPTION OF IT
BEFORE YOU CONSIDER ADOPTION
THAT I DO WANT TO ALSO POINT
OUT THAT WE HAVE A MEETING
SCHEDULED FOR AUGUST 5TH THAT
IS ALSO THE DATE OF AN ALL A
SPECIAL ELECTION HERE IN THE
CITY.
WE CAN HOLD THE MEETING MANA'S
FROM THE CLERK'S OFFICE IS THAT
THEY WON'T NEED THE SPACE.
MAYBE IT HAS SOMETHING TO DO
WITH THE FANCY NEW ELECTION
CENTER BUT JUST WANTED TO POSE
THE QUESTION AND SEE WHAT THE
MINDFULNESS OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WAS, WHETHER OR NOT
YOU WANTED TO HOLD THE MEETING
AS SCHEDULED ON THAT DATE OR
RESCHEDULE TO PERHAPS THE NEXT
DAY OR CANCEL IT A UH, DESIRE
TO CANCEL MOVE IT WILL KILL IT
SIR.
>> THEN ANY MOTION TO CONSIDER
THE SCHEDULE PROPOSED A VOICE
VOTE WOULD BE FINE.
>> UM UH COMMISSIONER MILLS
MOVES COMMISSIONER ADAM SECONDS
ANY DISCUSSION SAYING CAN I DO
A ROLL CALL VOTE I NEED A VOICE
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR I ANY
OPPOSE MOTION CARRIES THAT
TAKES US TO AGENDA ITEM ELEVEN
.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE WE
WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE IN
THE CHAMBER AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS
.
I THOUGHT IF I TOOK A BREATH I
WOULDN'T LAUGH.
>> I DID NOT WORK TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PRESSED OR NOT ON
PHONE OR USE THE RIGHT HAND
FEATURE IN ZOOM I'M LIKE MIXING
BETWEEN CRYING AND LAUGHING NOW
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND IN OUR
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF IDENTIFY CALLERS BY
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME FOR
SOME USERS YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE
THAT YOU ARE IN A QUIET AREA
AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS SEEING AS
THOUGH THERE IS NO ONE PRESENT
IN THE CHAMBER.
>> WE WILL MOVE TO OUR
PARTICIPANTS ON ZOM
THE
PLANNING COMMISSION YES,
GREETINGS ANAPRA CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THIS IS LUIS VASQUEZ NINE ZERO
NINE BARTENDS ARRIVE IN THE
FIRST WARD.
I WANT TO WANTING TO COMMENT ON
THE PROCESS AND APPRECIATE ALL
THE EFFORT THAT HAS BEEN PUT
INTO THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLANNING PROCESS INCLUDING
STAFF COMMISSIONERS AND CITY
COUNCIL.
I APPRECIATE YOUR TIME AND
EFFORT AND I KIND OF LIKE THE
DIRECTION THAT THE PROCESS IS
GOING AND THE DIRECTION THAT
YOU WANT TO TAKE AND ARBOR
TOWARDS WHICH IS INCREASING THE
DENSITY OF OF HOUSING
THROUGHOUT THE CITY INCLUDING
IN AREAS CURRENTLY OWNED
EXCLUSIONARY SINGLE FAMILY.
>> IF I HAD HAD THE OPPORTUNITY
IF THE ZONING WERE DIFFERENT I
MIGHT HAVE BEEN ABLE TO BUILD A
FOURPLEX ON MY PROPERTY BUT
BECAUSE OF THE CURRENT ZONING I
CANNOT I WOULD LIKE TO SEE MORE
BUSINESSES SUCH AS JEFFERSON
MARKET OR BIG CITY BAKERY.
I'D LIKE TO SEE THOSE
INTERSPERSED THROUGHOUT OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS BUT THE CURRENT
ZONING DOES NOT ALLOW FOR THAT
.
>> SO EVEN IF YOU WERE TO
RADICALLY CHANGE THE ZONING AND
MAKE IT MUCH MORE AGGRESSIVE,
IT WILL STILL TAKE YEARS AND
YEARS BEFORE WE APPROACH THE
KIND OF DENSITY THAT WE NEED TO
BE ABLE TO STOP THE OR SLOW
DOWN THE RISE OF RENTS AND
HOUSING PRICES AND MAKE THINGS
MORE AFFORDABLE.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE YEARS BUT
ALSO I JUST WANTED TO CLOSE BY
RELATING TO YOU A POST THAT I
SAW ON MARCH 2ND ON FACEBOOK
COMING FROM A SELF-APPOINTED
EXPERT IN LAND USE AND A
LANDLORD HE SAYS IN HIS POST
I'VE HAD TIME TO REVIEW A LOT
OF THE DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ENOUGH TO SAY THAT IT IS A
WEAK, VAGUE AND AN
EMBARRASSMENT TO THE EDUCATED
COMMUNITY.
WE DESERVE BETTER.
PLEASE SIGN THE PETITION THE
ONE THAT HE'S PUSHING IS TO
IMPLEMENT THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
THANK GOODNESS I SIGNED THIS.
THANK YOU.
I FIND THIS APPALLING.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
>> NO OTHER SPEAKERS
OK PUBLIC
COMMENT IS NOW CLOSE TO AGENDA
ITEM NUMBER 12 IN A COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS
SEEING NONE.
>> CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
TISH ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY.
WE ARE ADJOURNED